Contract Summary Sheet

Contract (PO) Number: 16724
Specification Number: 59098

Name of Contractor: EARTH TECH INC

City Department: GENERAL SERVICES

Title of Contract: Professional Construction Management Services

Term of Contract: Start Date: 1/1/2008
End Date: 1231/2012

Dollar Amount of Contract (or maximum compensation if a Term Agreement) (DUR):
'53,000,000.00

Brief Description of Work: Professional Construction Management Services
Procurement Services Contract Area: ARCH/ENGINEERING
‘Pleae refer tothe DPS website for Contac information under "Doing Business With The City”,

‘Vendor Number: 1058115
‘Submission Date:

WAR 19 2008

APR 8 2008
No, 59098
‘Contract No. 16724
Requisition No. 34810
"Vendor No 1059800

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT

STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
FOR
PROFESSIONAL CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT SERVICES

BETWEEN
EARTH TECH, INC.

AND
THE CITY OF CHICAGO
DEPARTMENT OF GENERAL SERVICES

RICHARD M. DALEY
MAYOR

(City Funds)

Grains SZHVE8O

he Cty my trom eo oe ee these erm nd ones,

Revised January 26,207 (TA)
ARTICLE 5.

ARTICLE 6.
61

. DEFINITIONS

+ DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF CONSULTANT

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT
STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS.

‘TABLE OF CONTENTS

Definitions
Interpretation
Order of Precedence of Component Parts

‘Ownership of Documents
Copyright Ownership ... :
Visual Artists Rights Act Waiver
Records and Audis ae
(@) Records
©) Audits
Confidentiality
Assignments and Subcontracts

‘TIME LIMITS FOR PERFORMANCE
Schedule for Performance...
Timeliness of Performance .

‘Agreement Extension Option

COMPENSATION
Basis of Payment

‘Method of Payment
Criteria for Payment
Funding ......
‘NoaAppropriation
Subcontractor Payments.

DISPUTES

COMPLIANCE WITH ALL LAWS
Compliance with All Laws Generally

Revised January 26, 2007 (TA) i

PAGE

BB OB BEGEEGE BEGG Ebiiimcinmainnis bac
ARTICLE 9,

ARTICLE 10. NOTICES

=

Nondiscrimination o co tete esses .
Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and Other Laws Concerning
‘Accessibilty coteeerseee

Subcontractors with Disabilities
Inspector General

Business Relationships with Elected Officials
Prohibition on Cerin Coonsbutons- Mayor Executive Order No. 05-1

Chicago “Living Wag :
Deemed Inclusion. -.-...-eeceecvceeeeee

SPECIAL CONDITIONS ........
‘Warranties and Representations .
Joint and Several Liability |
Business Documents.

Conflicts of Interest .
'Noo-Liability of Public Officials __

BBRBRBE BRE BREE.

|. EVENTS OF DEFAULT, REMEDIES, TERMINATION, SUSPENSION AND

RIGHT TO OFFSET .
Events of Default Defined »
Remedies .....

Early Termination...
‘Suspension

Right to Offset

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Entire Agreement .....
General

(©) NoCollateral Agreements -

(©) NoOmissions ce

Counterparts. .

Amendments

Governing Law and Jurisdiction

Severability

Assigns co.cc :

Waiver an

Independent Contractor... ...

Electronic Ordering and Invoices

BRRBERREE ie BEERBB

te

Revised January 26,2007 (TA) ii
ARTICLE 12.

Exhibit 1

Exhibit 2

Exhibit 3

Exhibit 4

‘SPECIAL CONDITIONS REGARDING MBE/WBE COMMITMENT ....... 38

List of Exhibits
Scope of Services
‘Antachment A - Key Personne!
‘Auachment B - Schedule of Performance
“Attachment C - Project Insurance Requirements
‘Compensation
‘Anachment A - Maximum Hourly Rates
‘Attachment B - City of Chicago Travel Reimbursement Guidelines
‘Attachment C - Consultant and Subconsultant Overhead Absorption Rates
MBE/WBE Commitments

Schedules C-3
Schedules D-3

‘No Change Affidavits and Disclosure of Retained Parties

Revised Jeary 26, 207 Project Spee iii
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT

‘This Agreement is entered into as of the 1" day of January, 2008, by and between Earth
“Tech ne, a California Consultant"), located st 10 South Riverside Plaza, Suite #1900,
Chicago, Hlingis 60606, and the City of Chicago ("City"), 2 muni ipal corporation and home rule
Sicap Al government existing under the laws ofthe State of Tinos, cing trough its
Department of General Services ("Department")

“The City and Consultant agree as follows:

‘TERMS AND CONDITIONS |

ARTICLE 1. DEFINITIONS
11 Definitions

‘The following words and phrases have the following meanings for purposes of
this Agreement:

“Additional Services" means those services which are within the general scope of
Services of this Agreement, but beyond the description of services required under
‘Section 2.1 and Exhibit 1 and al services reasonably necessary to complete the
‘Additional Services to the standards of performance required by this Agreement.
‘Any Additional Services requested by the Department require the approval of the
City in a written amendment under Section 9.3 of this Agreement before
Consultant is obligated to perform those Additional Services and before the City
‘becomes obligated to pay for those Additional Services.

“Agreement” means this Professional Services Agreement, including all exhibits,
which ae atached to it and incorporated in it by reference, and all amendments,
‘modifications or revisions made in accordance with its terms.

“Chief Procurement Officer” means the Chief Procurement Officer of the City
‘of Chicago and any representative duly authorized in writing to act on his behalf

“Commissioner” means the Commissioner ofthe Department of General

‘Services, and any representative euthorized in writing to act on the
‘Commissioner's behalf.

Revie January 26,2007 TA) 1
tid te eng St

42

13

"Services" means, collectively, the services, duties and responsibilities described
in Anicle 2 and Exhibit of this Agreement and any and all work necessary 10
them or carry them out fully and to the standard of performance required

in this Agreement,

“Subcontractor” means any person or entity with whom Consultant contracts to
provide any part of the Services, including subcontractors and subconsultants of
‘any tier, whether or notin privity with Consultant.

Interpretation

(2) The term “include” (inal its forms) means “include, without limitation"
unless the context clearly states otherwise.

(©) Allreferences inthis Agreement to Anicles, Sections or Exhibits, unless
‘otherwise expressed or indicated ae tothe Articles, Sections or Exhibits

of this Agreement.

(©) Words importing persons include firms, associations, partnerships, trusts,
corporations and other legal entities, including public bodies, as well as
natural persons.

(2) Any headings preceding the text ofthe Articles and Sections of this
‘Agreement, and any table of contents or marginal notes appended toi, are
solely for convenience or reference and do not constitute a part ofthis
‘Agreement, nor do they affect the meaning, construction or effect of this
‘Agreement

(©) Words importing the singular include the plural and vice versa, Words of
the masculine gender include the correlative words ofthe feminine and
neuter genders.

()_Allreferences to a number of days mean calendar days, unless indicated
otherwise.

Order of Precedence of Component Parts

In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the terms set forth in Anicle
1 through Antcle 12 ofthis Agreement and the terms set forth in Exhibit L
‘through Exhibit 4, including the Attachments to the Exhibits the terms and
provisions contained in Article I through Anicle 12 of this Agreement will take

‘Revised Janary 26, 2007 (TA) 2
nat nit ot Se

precedence over the terms and provisions contained in Exhibit | through Exhibit 4
‘except to the extent such terms and provisions are more favorable tothe City.

‘Article 1 through Anicle 12 govem the legal relationship between the parties and
Exhibit and Exhibit 2 describe the Services Consultant isto perform under this
‘Agreement, set fort the Key Personnel, set forth the time limits for Consultant's
performance, set forth the insurance requirements forthe project, and st forth the
‘compensation schedule for Consultant. As a result, the City and Consultant agree.
that any terms or matters set forth in either Exhibit or Exhibit inclading the
‘Attachments to the Exhibits, that do not exclusively pertain to defining the
‘Services Consultant isto perform, the Key Personnel, the time limits for
‘Consultants performance, the insurance requirements, and the compensation
schedule for Consultant are of no effect a to this Agreement and, regardless of
‘whether or not the City approves such terms or matters, are not binding on the
City, except to the extent that they would diminish the City's obligations under
this Agreement or increase Consultant's obligations or liabilities under this
“Agreement.

ARTICLE 2. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF CONSULTANT.

21 Scope of Services

‘Consultant must provide the Services described in Exhibit 1, Scope of Services
‘and Schedule for Performance, and any and all work necessary to complete them
for carry them out fully and tothe standard of performance required in this
‘Agreement. Consultant must provide the Services in accordance with the
standards of performance set forth in Section 2.3. Consultant must provide and
‘maintain at Consultan’s own expense, the insurance coverages and requirements

specified in Exhibit.
22 Deliverables

In carrying out its Services, Consultant must prepare or provide to the Cty various
Deliverables. “Deliverables” include wark product, such as designs, plans and
specifications, written eviews, recommendations, reports and analyses, produced
by Consultant forthe City.

‘The City may reject Deliverables that donot include relevant information or data,
‘or do not include all documents or other materials specified in this Agreement or
‘reasonably necessary for the purpose for which the City made this Agreement of
for which the City intends to use the Deliverables. Ifthe City determines that
Consultant has failed to comply withthe foregoing standards, it has 30 days from

‘Revised Janary 28,2007 (TA) 3
‘ri Sd nit a Sn

the discovery to notify Consultant of is failure, If Consultant does not correct the
failure, iit is possible todo so, within 30 days after receipt of notice from the
City specifying the failure, then the City, by written notice, may teat te failure as
1 default of this Agreement under Section 8.1,

arial or incomplete Deliverables may be accepted for review only when required
fora specific and well-defined purpose forthe benefit ofthe City and when
‘consented to in advance by the City. Such Deliverables will not be considered as
satisfying the requirements of this Agreement and partial or incomplete
Deliverables in no way relieve Consultant of its commitments under this
‘Agreement.

23. Standard of Performance

Consultant must perform all Services required of it under this Agreement with
that degree of skill, care and diligence normally shown by a consultant performing
‘services ofa scope and purpose and magnitude comparable withthe nature of the
‘Services to be provided under this Agreement.

‘Consultant must assure that all Services that require the exercise of professional
‘skills or judgment aze accomplished by professionals qualified and competent in
the applicable discipline and appropriately licensed, if required by law.
‘Consultant mast provide copies of any such licenses. Consultant remains
responsible for the professional and technical accuracy ofall Services or
Deliverables furnished, whether by Consultant or its Subcontractors or others on
its behalf. Ail Deliverables must be prepared in a form and conteat satisfactory to
the Department and delivered ina timely manner consistent withthe requirements
of this Agreement,

If Consultant fails to comply withthe foregoing standards, Consultant must
perform again, at its own expense, all Services required to be re-performed as a
Gitector indirect result ofthat failure, Any review, approval, acceptance or
‘payment for any of the Services by the City does not relieve Consultant ofits
{esponsibility forthe professional skill and care and technical accuracy of its
Services and Deliverables. This provision in no way limits the Cit’ rights
ageinst Consultant either under this Agreement, at law or in equity

24 Personnel

(@) Adequate Staffing

Revised Janay 26, 2007 (TA) 4
a ei ty Se,

(O)

ic)

‘Consultant must, upon receiving a fully executed copy ofthis Agreement,
assign and maintain during the term of this Agreement and any extension.
of it an adequate staff of competent personnel that is fully equipped,
licensed as appropriate, available as needed, qualified and assigned to
‘perform the Services. Consultant must include among its staff the Key
Personnel and postions a identified below. The level of staffing may be
revised from time to time by notice in writing from Consultant tothe City
and with written consent of the City, which consent the City will not
‘withhold unreasonably. Ifthe City fails to object tothe revision within 14
days after receiving the notice, then the revision will be considered
accepted by the City.

Key Personnel

Consultant mast not reassign or replace Key Personnel without the writen
consent of the City, which consent the City wll not unreasonably
withhold. "Key Personnel” means those job titles and the persons
assigned to those positions in accordance withthe provisions ofthis
Section 2.4(b), and set forth in Exhibit 1, Anachment 1-A. The
Department may at anytime in writing notify Consultant thatthe City will
no longer accept performance of Services under this Agreement by one or
smote Key Personnel listed. Upon that notice Consultant must immediately
suspend the services ofthe key person ot persons and must replace him or
hher or them in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.

Salaries and Wages

Consultant and Subcontractors mast pay all salaries and wages due all
‘employees performing Services under this Agreement unconditionally and
at least once a month without deduction or rebate on any account, except
‘only for those payroll deductions that are mandatory by law or are
‘permitted under applicable law and regulations. If in the performance of
this Agreement Consultant underpays any such salaries or wages, the
‘Comptroller forthe City may withhold, out of payments due to Consultant,
‘an amount sufficient to pay to employees underpaid the difference between
the salaries or wages required tobe paid under this Agreement and the
salaries or wages actually paid these employees for the total number of
hours worked. The amounts withheld may be disbursed by the
‘Comptroller for and on account of Consultant tothe respective employees
to whom they are due. The parties acknowledge that this Section 2.4(c) is
solely forthe benefit ofthe City and that it does not grant any third party
beneficiary rights

‘Revised Janmary 26, 2007(TA) 5
2S Indemnification

(

(O)

©

Consultant must defend, indemnify, keep and hold harmless the City, its
officers, representatives, elected and appointed officials, agents and
employees from and against any and all Losses, including those related to:

(injury, death or damage of or to any person or property;

(i) any infringement or violation of any property right including any
patent, wademark or copyright

Gil) Consultant’ failure to perform or cause to be performed
‘Consultant's covenants and obligations as and when required under
this Agreement, including Consultant’ failure to perform its
‘obligations to any Subcontractor;

iv) the City's exercise of its rights and remedies under Section 8.2 of
this Agreement; and

(0) injuries 10 oF death of any employee of Consultant or any
‘Subcontractor under any workers compensation statue.

“Losses” means, individually and collectively, liabilities of every kind,
including losses, damages and reasonable cost, payments and expenses
(such as, but not limited to, court costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees and
disbursements), claims, demands, actions, suits, proceedings, judgments or
settlements, any o all of which in any way arise out of or relate to
‘Consultant's breach ofthis Agreement or to Consultant's negligent or
‘otherwise wrongful acts or omissions or those of its officers, agents,
‘employees, consultants, Subcontractors or licensees.

‘Consultant's obligations to indemnify, keep, and hold harmless the City,
Us officers, representatives, elected and appointed officials, agents and.
‘employees from and against any and all Losses excludes that portion of.
Losses caused by any act, error or omission onthe part ofthe particular
City officer(s), representative(s) elected and appointed offical(s), agents)
fr employee(s) seeking indemnification under this Section 2.5 if,
Consultant's indemnification would violate the provisions ofthe
Consiruction Contract Indemnification for Negligence Act, 740 ILCS
35/001 et seq

Revised January 26, 2007 (TA) 6
de Pt ey Se

26

O)

©

o

tthe City Corporation Counsel's option, Consultant, subject to Section
2.5(@) above, must defend all suits brought upon all such Losses and must
pay all costs and expenses incidental to them, but the City has the right, at
its option, to participate at its own cost, in the defense of any suit, without
relieving Consultant of any of its obligations under this Agreement, Any
settlement must be made only with the prior written consent ofthe City
‘Corporation Counsel, ifthe settlement requires any action on the part of
the City.

To the extent permissible by aw, Consultant waives any limits to the
amount of its obligations to indemnify, defend or contribute to any sums
‘due under any Losses, including any claim by any employee of Consultant
that may be subject to the Workers Compensation Act, 820 ILCS 305/1 et
se9. or any other related law or judicial decision (such as, Koteck v
Cyclops Welding Corporation, 146 Il. 2d 155 (1991)). The City,
Ihowever, does not waive any limitation it may have on it liability under
the Ilinois Workers Compensation Act, the Ilinois Pension Code, any
‘other statute or judicial decision.

‘The indemnitis inthis section survive expiration or termination of this
‘Agreement for matters occuring or arising during the term ofthis
‘Agreement or as the result of or during Consultant's performance of
‘Services beyond the term. Consultant acknowledges that the requirements
set forth inthis section to indemnify, keep and save harmless and defend
the City are apart from and not limited by Consultant's duties under this
‘Agreement, including the insurance requirements in Exhibit of this
‘Agreement

‘Ownership of Documents

All Deliverables, data, fi

1 or information in any form prepared, assembled or

encountered by or provided to Consultant under this Agreement are property of
the City including, as further described in Section 2.7 below, all copyrights
inherent in them or their preparation. During performance ofits Services,
Consultant is responsible for any loss or damage tothe Deliverables, data,
findings or information while in Consultant's or any Subcontractors possession.
‘Any such lost or damaged Deliverables, data, findings or information must be
restored atthe expense of Consultant. If not restorable, Consultant must bear the
cost of replacement and of any loss suffered by the City on account of the
<estruction, as provided in Section 2:5

Revised Jnwary 26,2007 (TA) 7
‘tt et nit gn Se

27

28

Copyright Ownership

‘Consultant and the City intend that, to the extent permitted by law, the
Deliverables tobe produced by Consultant atthe Citys instance and expense
under this Agreement are conclusively deemed "works made for hire” within the
‘meaning and purview of Section 101 of the United States Copyright Act, 17
U.S.C. §101 et seg., and that the Cty will be the sole copyright owner of the
Deliverables and ofall aspects elements and components of them in which
copyright can subsist, and of all rights to apply for copyright registration or
‘prosecute any claim of infringement.

‘To the extent that any Deliverable does not qualify as a “work made for hire,”
Consultant hereby irevocably grants, conveys, bargains, sells, assigns, transfers
‘and delivers tothe Cty, its successors and assigns, allright, tite and interest in
and tothe copyrights and all U.S and foreign copyright registrations, copyright
‘pplications and copyright renewals for them, and other intangible, intellectual
‘property embodied in or pertaining to the Deliverables prepared forthe City under
this Agreement, and all goodwill relating to them, free and clear of any liens.
claims or other encumbrances, to the fullest extent permitted by law. Consultant
will, and will cause al ofits Subcontractors, employees, agenis and other persons
within its control to, execute all documents and perform all acts thatthe City may
‘reasonably request in order to assist the Cty in perfecting its rights in and tothe
‘copyrights relating tothe Deliverables, atthe sole expense of the City. Consultant
‘warrants to the City, its successors and assigns, that on the date of transfer
Consultant i the lawful owner of good and marketable tite in and tothe
copyrights for the Deliverables and has the legal rights to fully assign them.
Consultant further warrants that it has ot assigned and will not assign any
‘copyrights and that it has not granted and will not grant any licenses, exclusive or
‘nonexclusive, to any other party, and that it is not a party to any other agreements
‘or subject to any other restrictions with respect tothe Deliverable. Consultant
Warrants that the Deliverables are complet, entire and comprehensive within the
standard of performance under Section 2.3 ofthis Agreement and thatthe
Deliverables constitute a work of original authorship. The City will not reuse the
Deliverables to build other projects, without the written consent of Consultant.

Visual Artists Rights Act Waiver

Consultant waives any and all rights, in any work of visual art that may be
‘provided pursuant to this Agreement, that may be granted or conferred under
‘Section 106A and Section 113 of the United States Copyright Act (17 USC. §
101 g1seq) (the “Copyright Aer).

‘Revised January 26,2007 TA) 8
29° Records and Audits

(@ Records

o

wo

Consultant must deliver or cause tobe delivered tothe City all
documents, including all Deliverables prepared for the City under
the terms of this Agreement, tothe City promptly in accordance
‘with the time limits prescribed in this Agreement, and if no time
imitis specified, then upon reasonable demand for them or upon
termination or completion of the Services under this Agreement,
Inthe event ofthe failure by Consultant to make such delivery
‘upon demand, then and in that event, Consultant must pay to the
City any damages the City may sustain by reason of Consultant's
lure.

‘Consultant must maintain any such records including Deliverables
‘ot delivered to the City or demanded by the City for a period of 5
years after the final payment made in connection with this
‘Agreement. Consultant must not dispose of such documents
following the expiration of this period without notification of and.
‘writen approval from the City in accordance with Article 10.

©) Audits

o

oy

‘Revised Jaary 26,2007 (TA)

Consultant and any of Consultant's Subcontractors must furnish the
Department with all information that may be requested pertaining
tothe performance and cost of the Services, Consultant must,
‘maintain records showing actual time devoted and costs incurred.
Consultant must keep books, documents, paper, records and.
accounts in connection withthe Services open to audit, inspection,
‘copying, abstracting and transcription and must make these records
available o the City and any other interested governmental agency,
at reasonable times during the performance of is Services.

To the extent that Consultant conducts any business operations
separate and apart from the Services required under this Agreement
using, for example, personnel, equipment, supplies or Facilities also
‘used in connection with this Agreement, then Consultant must
maintain and make similarly available to the City detailed records
supporting Consultants allocation to this Agreement of the costs
and expenses attributable to any such shared usages.
oy

oy

(o)

‘Consultant must maintain its books, records, documents and other
evidence and adopt accounting procedures and practices sufficient
to reflect propery al costs of whatever nature claimed to have
been incurred and anticipated to be incurred for ot in connection
withthe performance of this Agreement. This system of
accounting must be in accordance with generally accepted
‘accounting principles and practices, consistently applied
‘droughout.

[No provision in this Agreement granting the City aright of access
to records and documents i intended to impair, limit or affect any
right of access to such records and documents which the City
‘would have had inthe absence of such provisions.

‘The City may in its sole discretion audit the records of Consultant
‘or its Subcontractors, or both, at anytime during the term ofthis
‘Agreement or within five years after the Agreement ends, in
‘connection with the goods, work, or services provided under this
‘Agreement. Each calendar year or partial calendar year is
‘considered an “audited period.” If, asa result of such an audit, itis
{determined that Consultant or any of its Subcontractors has
overcharged the City inthe audited period, the Cty will notify
Consultant. Consultant must then promptly reimburse the City for
any amounts the City has paid Consultant due to the overcharges
and also some or all of the cost ofthe audit, as follows:

‘A. Ifthe audit has revealed overcharges to the City
representing less than 5% of the total value, based on the
‘Agreement prices, ofthe goods, work, or services provided
in the audited period, then the Consultant must reimburse
the City for 50% of the cost of the audit and 50% of the
cost ofeach subsequent audit thatthe City conducts;

B. however, the audit has revealed overcharges to the City
representing 5% or more ofthe total value, based on the
“Agreement prices, of the goods, work, or services provided
inthe audited period, then Consultant must reimburse the
City forthe full cost ofthe audit and of each subsequent
audit.

Failure of Consultant to reimburse the City in accordance with subsection
‘A orB above isan event of default under this Agreement, and Consultant

‘Revised January 26,2007 TA)

10
will be liable forall ofthe City’s cost of collection, including any court
costs and attorneys’ fees.

210 Confidentiality

2a

@

o

©

{Al Deliverables and repons, daa, findings or information in any form
prepared, assembled or encountered by or provided by Consultant uader
this Agreement are property ofthe City and are confidential, except as
specifically authorized inthis Agreement or as may be required by law.
‘Consultant must not allow the Deliverables to be made available to any
‘ther individual or organization withoct the price writen consent of the
City, Further, ll documents and othe information provided to Consultant
bythe City ae confidential and must not be made available to any other
individsal or organization without the prior writen consent ofthe City.
‘Consukant must implement such measures as may be necessary to ensure
‘hat its staff and its Subcontractors are bound by the confidentiality
provisions in this Agreement

Consultant must not issue any publicity news releases or grant press

interviews, and except as may be required by law during or afte the

performance ofthis Agreement, disseminate any information regarding its
i ‘without the prior

1 Consultant is presented with a equest for documents by any
administrative agency or with a subpocna duces tecum regarding any
records, data or documents which may bein Consultan’ possession by
reason ofthis Agreement, Consultant must immediatly give notice tothe
Commissioner andthe Corporation Counsel forthe Cty wih the
understanding that the City wll have the opportunity to cones such
process by any means available tot before the records, data or documents
ae submited to a cour or other third party. Consultant, however is aot
obligated to withhold the delivery beyond the time ordered by the court or
adminisative agency, unles the subpoena or request is quashed or the
time to produce is otherwise extended

Assignments and Subcontracts

Consultant must not assign, delegate or otherwise transfer all or any part ofits
rights or obligations under this Agreement or any pat of it, unless otherwise
‘provided for in this Agreement or without the express written consent ofthe Chief
Procurement Officer and the Department. The absence of such a provision of

ested Jamary 26,2007 (TA) Ny
‘Aan i ag Sn

written consent voids the attempted assignment, delegation or transfer and is of no
cffect as to the Services or this Agreement. No approvals given by the Chief
Procurement Officer operate to relieve Consultant of any of its obligations or
liabilities under this Agreement.

All subcontracts and all approvals of Subcontractors ar, regardless of their form,
considered conditioned upon performance by the Subcontractor in accordance
withthe terms and conditions ofthis Agreement. If any Subcontractor fails to
‘observe or perform the tems and conditions of this Agreement tothe satisfaction
of the Department, the City has the absolute right upon writtea notification to
immediately rescind approval and to require the performance of this Agreement
bby Consultant personally or through any other City-approved Subcontractor. Any
approval forthe use of Subcontractors inthe performance ofthe Services under
this Agreement under no circumstances operates to relieve Consultant of any of its
obligations or liabilities under this Agreement.

‘Consultant, upon entering into any agreement with a Subcontractor, must furnish
‘upon request of the Chief Procurement Officer or the Department a copy ofits
‘agreement. All subcontracts must contain provisions that require the Services be
performed in strict accordance with the requirements of this Agreement, provide
that the Subcontractors are subject to all the terms ofthis Agreement and are
subject to the approval of the Department and the Chief Procurement Officer. If
the agreements do not prejudice any ofthe City rights under this Agreement,
such agreements may contain different provisions than are provided inthis
Agreement with respect to extensions of schedule, time of completion, payments,
‘guarantees and matters not affecting the quality ofthe Services.

Consultant must not transfer or assign any funds or clams due or to become due
under this Agreement without the prior written approval ofthe Chief Procurement
Officer. The attempted transferor assignment of any funds, either in whole or in
‘art, or any interest in them, which are due or to become due to Consultant under
this Agreement, without such prior written approval, has no effect upon the City,

‘Under the Municipal Code of Chicago, ch. 2-92, Section -92-248, the Chief
Procurement Officer may make direct payments to Subcontractors for Services
performed under this Agreement. Any such payment has the same effect as if the
City had paid Consultant that amount directly. Such payment by the City to
‘Consultant's Subcontractor under no circumstances operates to relieve Consultant
‘of any of its obligations or liabilities under this Agreement, This section is solely
for the benefit ofthe City and does not grant sny third party beneficiary rights.

‘Revised January 26, 2007 TA) 2
ln tare i emg Sen

ARTICLE 3.
MM

32

ARTICLE 4.
4a

‘TIME LIMITS FOR PERFORMANCE,
Schedule for Performance

‘This Agreement takes effect as of the date ofits execution by the City ("Effective
‘Date’)which is set forth in the preamble and will continue for 60 months, or until
the Agreement is terminated in accordance with its terms, whichever occurs first.
‘The Agreement may be extended for up to 2 additional one-year periods in
accordance with Section 3.3.

‘Timeliness of Performance

(2) Consultant must perform the Services as expeditiously as is consistent
with professional skill and care and must provide the Services and
Deliverables within the schedule required under Exhibit of this
Agreement,

(®) Neither Consultant nor Consultant's agents, employees or Subcontractors
are entitled to any damages from the City, nor is any party entitled to be
reimbursed by the City, for damages, charges or other losses or expenses
incurred by Consultant by reason of delays or hindrances in the
performance of the Services, whether or not caused by the City.

‘Agreement Extension Option

‘The Chief Procurement Officer may at any time before this Agreement expires
lect to extend this Agreement for up to 2 additional one-year periods under the
same terms and conditions as this original Agreement, except as provided.
‘otherwise inthis Agreement, by notice in writing to Consultant,

COMPENSATION
Basis of Payment

‘The City will compensate Consultant according to the Schedule of Compensation
contained in Exhibit? ofthis Agreement for the successful completion ofthe
Services,

Notwithstanding anything in the Schedule of Compensation set forth in Exhibit 2

to the contrary, Consultant's compensation under this Agreement i limited to
those amounts allowable and allocable to this Agreement under 48 C.F.R, Part 31,

‘Revised January 26,2007 (TA) 3
43

Subpart 31.6 (the Federal Acquistion Regulation), OMB Circular A-87
(incorporated by reference into 48 CFR. Part 31, Subpart 31.6), and the cost
principles set forth in 48 C.F.R. Part 31, Subpart 31.2, but only tothe extent that
the cost principles in Subpart 31.2 do not conflict with the terms of 48 C.F.R. Part
531, Subpart 31.6 and OMB Circular A-87. To the extent that an audit reveals that
Consultant has received payment in excess of such amounts, the City may offset
such excess payments against any future payments due to Consultant and, if no
future payments are due o if future payments are less than such excess,
Consultant must promptly refund the amount of the excess payments to the City.

Method of Payment

Consultant must submit monthly invoices tothe City for labor and other direct
snd indirect costs as billed, as outlined inthe Schedule of Compensation in
Exhibit 2. The invoices must be signed, dated, reference the City contract number
and name, and must be in such other detail as the City requests. If Consultant has
‘more than one agreement with the City, Consultant must prepare and submit
separate invoices for each agreement. Consultant must not submit invoices for
Jess than $500 unless a particular invoice is for last payment related to closeout of
the Services.

‘The City will process payment within 60 days ater receipt of invoices and all
supporting dacamentation necessary for the City to verify the Services provided
under this Agreement

Criteria for Payment

‘The reasonableness, allocability, and allowability of any costs and expenses
‘charged by Consultant under this Agreement will be determined by the Chief
Procarement Officer and the Commissioner in their sole discretion.

Inthe event of a dispute between Consultant and the City a to whether any
particular charge will be paid, or as to whether the amount of such charge is
Feasonable, allocable to the Services, or allowable, Consultant must, and the
Department may, jointly o individually, refer such dispute tothe Chief
Procurement Officer for resolution in accordance withthe Disputes section ofthis
‘Agreement. The City will not withhold payment for undisputed sums on such
invoice while a dispute is being resolved. All invoice disputes will be handled as
described in Section B.3 of Exhibit2

‘Revised Jaary 26,2007 TA) 14
at eh nig nr Sr

44

4s

46

Funding.

“The source of funds for payments under this Agreement is the Fund Number set
forth in Exhibit2, Payments under this Agreement will not be made or due to
Consultant in excess of the dollar amount set forth in Exhibit 2 without a weitten
amendment in accordance with Section 93.

Non-Appropriation

1 no funds or insufficient funds are appropriated and budgeted in any fiscal period
‘of the Cty for payments to be made under this Agreement, then the City wil
‘potify Consultant in writing ofthat occurrence, and this Agreement will terminate
fn the earlier ofthe last day of the fiscal period for which sufficient appropriation
‘was made or whenever the funds appropriated for payment under this Agreement
ire exhausted. Payments for Services completed tothe date of notification will be
‘made to Consultant except that no payments will be made or due to Consultant
‘under this Agreement beyond those amounts appropriated and budgeted by the
CCity to fund payments under this Agreement.

Subcontractor Payments

‘Contractor mast submit asta report of Subcontractor payments with

‘etch invoice for the duration ofthe contract on the "Subcontractor

Payment Cenifieation” form required by the City. The form can be

downloaded from the City’s website at

Intp/egov cityofchicago.org/webporta/COCWebPorta/COC_EDITORIA

[Lsubcompliance pdf, The statement must lst the following for

‘Contractor and for each Subcontractor and supplier forthe period for

‘which payment is requested:

{Total amount invoiced by the Contractor forthe prior month;

Gi) The name of each particular Subcontractor or supplier uilizes
uring the prior month;

(Gil) Indication ifthe Subcontractor or supplier is acting as an MBE,
WBE, DBE, of non-certfied firm on this contract;

(iv) The vendor/supplier number of each Subcontractor or supple:

(8) Total amount invoiced that is to be paid to each Subcontractor or
supplier.

(@) Ifa Subcontractor has satisfactorily completed its Work, or provided

specified materials in accordance with the requirements of the Contract,

‘Contractor shall pay Subcontractor for such work or materials within 14

days of Contractor receiving payment from the City

Revised Janay 26, 2007 (TA) 1s
ARTICLE 5. DISPUTES

Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, Consultant must and the Commissioner may
bring any dispute concerning a question of fact arising under this Agreement which is not
disposed of to the Chief Procurement Officer for decision based upon writen submissions ofthe
parties. (A copy ofthe "Regulations ofthe Department of Procurement Services for Resolution

availabe in City Hall, 12L'N,

LaSalle Street, Room 301, Bid and Bond Room.) The Chief Procurement Officer will reduce his
<ecision to writing and mail or otherwise furnish a copy of itto Consultant. The decision of the
Chief Procurement Officer is final and binding. If Consultant does not agree with the decision of
the Chief Procurement Officer, the sole and exclusive remedy i judicial review by a common

law writ of certiorari.

ARTICLE 6. COMPLIANCE WITH ALL LAWS

6.1 Compliance with All Laws Generally

@

©

‘Consultant must observe and comply with all applicable federal, state,
‘county and municipal laws, statues, ordinances and executive orders, in
effect now or later and whether or not they appear inthis Agreement,
including those set forth in this Article, and Consultant must pay all
taxes and obtain all licenses, certificates and other authorizations required
bbythem. Consultant must require all Subcontractors 10 do so, also.
Consultant must have filed, within 1 year prior to the Effective Date, an
‘executed Economic Disclosure Statement and Affidavit (Disclosure
Affidavit") with the Chief Procurement Officer and must execute a No
‘Changes Affidavit and a Disclosure of Retained Paris inthe forms
incorporated into this Agreement as Exhibit 4. Notwithstanding
acceptance by the City ofthe Disclosure Affidavit, failure of the
Disclosure Affidavit to include all information required under the
“Municipal Code renders this Agreement voidable atthe option of the City.

Notwithstanding anything inthis Agreement to the contrary, references to
a statute or law are considered to be a reference to (i) the statute or law as
it may be amended from time to time; (i) all regulations and rules,

pertaining to or promulgated pursuant to the statute or law: and (ii) all
future statutes, laws, regulations, rules and executive orders peraining 16
the same or similar subject matter.

Revised Jamar 26,2007 (TA) 16
ln rc nig ee

62 Nondiscrimination

(@) Consultant

In performing its Services under this Agreement, Consultant must comply
‘with applicable laws probibiting discrimination against individuals and

groups.
Co)

Revised January 26, 2007 (TA)

Federal Requirements

In performing its Services under this Agreement, Consultant must
‘ot engage in unlawful employment practices, such as (1) failing or
refusing to hire or discharging any individual, or otherwise
discriminating against any individual with respect to compensation
(oF the terms, conditions, or privileges of the individual’
‘employment, because of the individual's race, color, reli
age, handicap/disablity or national origin; or (2) limiting,
segregating or classifying Consultant's employees or applicants for
employment in any way that would deprive or end to deprive any
individual of employment opportunities or otherwise adversely
affect the individual's status as an employee, because of the
individual’ race, color, religion, sex, age, handicap/dissbility or
national origin.

Consultant must comply with, andthe procedures Consultant
utilizes and the Services Consultant provides under this Agreement
‘must comply with, the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. see.
12000 et seg. (1981), a8 amended and the Civil Rights Act of 1991,
PAL. 102-166. Attention is called to: Exec. Order No. 11246, 30
Fed, Reg. 12,319 (1965), reprinted in 42 U.S.C. 2000e note, 25,
amended by Exec. Order No. 11375, 32 Fed. Reg. 14,303 (1967)
‘and by Exec. Order No, 12086, 43 Fed. Reg. 46,501 (1978); Age
Discrimination Act, 42 U-S.C. §§ 6101-6106 (1981); Age
Discrimination in Employment Act, 29 U.S.C. §§621-34;

Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 U.S.C. $§ 793-794 (1981);
‘Americans with Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C. §12101 et seq: 41
CER. Part 60 er seq. (1990); Drug Abuse Office and Treatment,
[Act of 1972, P.L. 92-255, as amended; and Comprehensive
‘Aleokol Abuse and Alcoholism Prevention Act of 1970, P.L. 91-
616, as amended; and al other applicable federal statutes,
regulations and other las.

‘nt ete nl tn Se,

State Requirements

Consultant must comply with and the procedures Consultant
utilizes and the Services Consultant provides under this Agreement
‘ust comply with, the Mlinois Human Rights Act, 775 ILCS 5/1-
101 et seg. (1990), as amended and any rules and regulations
promulgated in accordance with it, including the Equal
Employment Opportunity Clause, 44 Il, Admin. Code § 750
Appendix A. Furthermore, Consultant must comply with the
Public Works Employment Discrimination Act, 775 ILCS 1010.01
1 seq, (1990), a8 amended; and all ether applicable state statutes,
regulations and other laws.

(ii) City Requirements

Consultant must comply with, and the procedures Consultant
uilizes and the Services Consultant provides under this Agreement
‘must comply with, the Chicago Human Rights Ordinance, ch. 2-
160, Section 2-160-010 er seq. of the Municipal Code of Chicago
(1990), as amended, and all other applicable City ordinances and
rules. Further, Consultant must furish and must cause each ofits
Subcontractor(s) o furnish such reports and information as
‘requested by the Chicago Commission on Human Relations,

©) Subcontractors

‘Consultant must incorporate this Section 6.2 by reference in all agreements
centered into with Subcontractors and labor organizations that furnish
skilled, unskilled and craft union skilled labor, or any other services in
connection with this Agreement,

Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and Other Laws
Concerning Accessibility

Consuitant covenants that all designs, plans and.
under this Agreement

laws and regulations regarding accessibility standards for persons with di
‘or environmentally limited persons including the following: the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C. § 12101 er seg. and the Americans with
Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines for Buildings and Fecilites
CADAAG"); the Architectural Barriers Act, Pub. L. 90-480 (1968), and the
Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards ("UFAS"; and the Ilinois

Revised January 26,2007 (TA) 18
64

6s

66

Environmental Barriers Act, 410 ILCS 25/1 et seg. and all regulations
promulgated thereunder, see Illinois Administrative Code, Title 71, Chapter 1,
Section 400.110. If the above standards are inconsistent, Consultant must assure
‘that its designs, plans, and drawings comply with the standard providing the
‘greatest sccessbility. Also, Consultant must prior to construction, review the
plans and specifications to insure compliance with these standards.” If Consultant
fails to comply with the foregoing standards, the City may, without limiting any of
its remedies set forth in Section 8.2 or otherwise available at law. in equity or by
statute, require Consultant to perform again, at no expense, all Services required
to be reperformed as.a director indirect result of such failure.

‘Subcontractors with Disabilities

‘The City encourages Contractors to use Subcontractors that are firms owned or
‘operated by individuals with disabilities, as defined by Section 292-586 ofthe
“Municipal Code ofthe City of Chicago, where not otherwise prohibited by federal
or state law.

Inspector General

Itis the duty of any bidder, proposer or Consultant, all Subcontractors, every
applicant for cenification of eligibility or a City contract or program, and all
officers, directors, agents, partners and employees of any bidder, proposer,
‘Consultant, Subcontractor or such applicant to cooperate with the Inspector
General in any investigation or hearing undertaken pursuant to Chapter 2-56 ofthe
Municipal Code of Chicago. Consultant understands and will abide by all,
provisions of Chapter 2-56 of the Municipal Code of Chicago. All subcontracts
‘must inform Subcontractors ofthe provision and require understanding and
compliance with it

Business Relationships with Elected Officials

Pursuant to Section 2-156-030(b) of the Municipal Code of the City of Chicago, it
is illegal for any elected offical of the City, or any person acting atthe direction
(of such official, to contact, either orally or in writing, any other City official or
employee with respect to any matter involving any person with whom the elected
official has a business relationship, or to participate in any discussion in any Cty
Council committee hearing or in any City Council meeting orto vote on any
‘matter involving the person with whom an elected official has a business
relationship. Violation of Section 2-156-030(b) by any elected official with
tespect to this Agreement is grounds for termination ofthis Agreement. The term

‘Revised January 26,2007 (TA) 19
te ni gon ei

67

business relationship is defined as set forth in Section 2-156-080 of the Municipal
Code of Chicago.

‘Section 2-156-080 defines a "business relationship” as any contractual or other
private business dealing of an official, or his or her spouse, or of any entity in
‘which an official or his or her spouse has a financial interest, with a person or
entity which entitles an official to compensation or payment in the amount of
$2,500 or more in a calendar year; provided, however, a financial interest shall not
include: (i) any ownership through purchase at fair market value or inheritance of
less than one percent ofthe share of a corporation, or any corporate subsidiary,
parent or affiliate thereof, regardless of the value of or dividends on such shares, if
such shares are registered on a securities exchange pursuant tothe Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; (i) the authorized compensation paid to an
official or employee or is office or employment; (i) any economic benefit
provided equally to all residents ofthe City; (iv) a time or demand deposit in a
financial institution; or (¥) an endowment oF insurance policy or annuity contract
purchased from an insurance company. A "contractual or other private
business dealing” shall not include any employment relationship of an official's
spouse with an entity when such spouse has no discretion concerning or input
relating tothe relationship between that entity and the City.

Prohibition on Certain Contributions - Mayoral Executive Order No. 05-1

‘Contractor agrees that Contractor, any person or entity who directly or indirectly
has an ownership or beneficial interest in Contractor of more than 7.5 percent
(COwners"), spouses and domestic partners of such Owners, Contractor's
‘Subcontractors, any person or entity who directly or indirectly has an ownership
‘or beneficial interest in any Subcontractor of more than 7.5 percent
(C'Sub-owners") and spouses and domestic partners of such Sub-owners
(Contractor and all the other preceding classes of persons and entities are together,
the “Identified Parties", shall not make a contribution of any amount to the
‘Mayor of the City of Chicago (the “Mayor") or to his political fundraising
‘committee (i) after execution ofthis bid, proposal or Agreement by Contractor,
(Gi) while this Agreement or any Other Contract i executory, (il) during the term
‘of this Agreement or any Other Contract between Contractor and the City, or (iv)
<during any period while an extension ofthis Agreement or any Other Contract is
being sought or negotiated.

Contractor represents and warrants that since the date of public advertisement of,
the specification, request for qualifications, request for proposals or request for
information (or any combination of those requests) or, if not competitively
procured, from the date the City approached the Contractor or the date the
Contractor approached the City, as applicable, regarding the formulation of this

‘Revised January 26, 2007 (TA) 20
‘Agreement, no Identified Parties have made a contribution of any amount tothe
“Mayor orto his political fundraising committee.
Contractor agrees that it shall not: (a) coerce, compel or intimidate its employees
to:make a contribution of any amount to the Mayor or to the Mayor's political
fundraising committe; (b) reimburse its employees for a contribution of any
amount made to the Mayor or to the Mayor's political fundraising committe; or
(©) bundle or solicit others to bundle contributions o the Mayor orto his political
fundraising committee.
Contractor agrees thatthe Identified Panties must not engage in any conduct
whatsoever designed to intentionally violate this provision or Mayoral Executive
Order No. 05-1 of to entice, direct or solicit others to intentionally violate this
provision or Mayoral Executive Order No. 05-1,
Contractor agrees that a violation of, non-compliance with, misrepresentation with
respect to, or breach of any covenant or warranty under this provision or violation
cof Mayoral Executive Order No, 05-1 constitutes a breach and default under this
‘Agreement, and under any Other Contract for which no opportunity to cure will be
igranted. Such breach and default entitles the City to all remedies (including
‘without limitation termination for default) under this Agreement, under Other
Contract, at law and in equity. This provision amends any Other Contract and
supersedes any inconsistent provision contained therein.
If Contractor violates this provision or Mayoral Executive Order No. 05-1 prior to
award ofthe Agreement resulting from this specification, the Chief Procurement
Officer may reject Contractor's bid.
For purposes of this provision:
“Bundle” means to collect contributions from more than one source which are
then delivered by one person tothe Mayor orto his political fundraising
committee.
“Other Contract” means any other agreement with the ity of Chicago to which
Contractor is a party that is (i) formed under the authority of chapter 2-92 of the
“Municipal Code of Chicago; (i) entered into forthe purchase of lease of real or
personal property; or (i) for materials, supplies, equipment or services which are
approved or authorized by the city council.
“Contribution” means a “political contribution” as defined in Chapter 2-156 of the
“Municipal Code of Chicago, as amended,
Individuals are “Domestic Partners” if they satisfy the following criteria:
(A) they are each others sole domestic partner, responsible for each
other's common welfare; and
(B) neither pany is married and
(©) the partners are not related by blood closer than would bar
‘marrage inthe State of Ulinois; and
(D) cach partner is at least 18 years of age, and the parners are the
same sex, and the partners reside atthe same residence: and

Revised Jamary 2, 2007 (TA) a
0)

O)

(©) (wo of the following four conditions exist forthe partners:
1, The partners have been residing together for at least 12

months.

2. The partners have common or joint ownership of a
residence.

3. Thepartners have at least two of the following
arrangements:

joint ownership of a motor vehicle;
joint credit account;

© joint checking account;

4. alease fora residence identifying both domestic

partners as tenans.
4, Each partner identifies the other partner as a primary

beneficiary ina will
“Political fundraising committee” means a "political fundraising commitee" as
efined in Chapter 2-156 of the Municipal code of Chicago, as amended.

(Chicago "Living Wage” Ordinance

‘Section 2-92-610 of the Municipal Code of Chicago provides fora living wage for
certain categories of workers employed in the performance of City contracts,
specifically non-City employed security guards, parking attendants, day laborers,
‘home and health care workers, cashiers, elevator operators, custodial workers and
clerical workers ("Covered Employees"). Accordingly, pursuant to Section,
2.92-610 and regulations promulgated under it

(tf Consultant has 25 oF more full-time employees, and

Gi) fat any time during the performance of this Agreement,
Consultant and/or any Subcontractor or any other entity that provides any portion
of the Services (collectively "Performing Parties”) uses 25 or more full-time
security guards, or any numberof other full-time Covered Employees, then

it) Consultant must pay its Covered Employees, and mast assure that
all other Performing Panties pay their Covered Employees, not less than the
‘minimum hourly rate as determined in accordance with this provision (the "Base
Wage’) forall Services performed under this Agreement.

Consultant’ obligation to pay, and to assure payment of the Base Wage will
begin at any time during the term of this Agreement when the conditions set forth
in a} and (ai) above are met, and will continue until the end of the term of

this Agreement,

Revised January 26,2007 (TA) 2
i rt tay ee

©

@

©

69

‘As of July 1, 2007, the Base Wage became $10.33, and each July I thereafter, the
Base Wage willbe adjusted, using the most recent federal poverty guidelines fora
family of four as published annually by the US. Department of Health and Human
Services, o constitute te following: the poverty guidelines fra family of four
divided by 2000 hours or the current base wage, whichever is higher. Atal times
<uring the term ofthis Agreement, Consultant and all other Performing Pates
smust pay the Base Wage (as adjusted in accordance with the above). Ifthe
payment of prevailing wages is requied for Services done under this Agreement,
and the prevailing wages for Covered Employees are higher than the Base Wage,
then Consultant and all other Performing Parties must pay the prevailing wage
rates.

‘Consultant must include provisions in all subcontracts requiring its
Subcontractors to pay the Base Wage to Covered Employees. Consultant agrees
to provie the City with documentation acceptable to the Chief Procurement
Officer demonstrating that all Covered Employees, whether employed by
Consultant or by @ Subcontractor, have been pad the Base Wage, upon the City's
request for such documentation. The City may independently audit Consultant
and/or Subcontractors o verify compliance with this section. Failure t comply
with the requirements ofthis section willbe an event of default under this
‘Agreement, and further, failure to comply may result in ineligibility for any award
‘of City contact or subcontract for up (03 years.

Not-for-Profit Corporations: If Consultant isa corporation having federal tax-
‘exempt status under Section 501(¢)3) ofthe Internal Revenue Code and is
recognized under Hlinois not-for-profit law, then the provisions of subsections (a)
through (d) above do not apply.

Deemed Inclusion

Provisions required by law, ordinances, rules, regulations, or executive orders to
be inserted in this Agreement are deemed inserted in this Agreement whether or
‘ot they appear inthis Agreement or, upon application by elther party, this
‘Agreement will be amended to make the insertion; however, in no event will the
failure to insert the provisions before or after this Agreement is signed prevent its
enforcement.

ARTICLE 7, SPECIAL CONDITIONS

mM

‘Warranties and Representations

Revised January 26 2007 (TA) 2B
i es a nS

In connection with signing and carrying out this Agreement, Consultant:

@

(3)

©

@

©

warrants that Consultant is appropriately licensed under Minois law to
perform the Services required under this Agreement and will perform no
Services for which a professional license is required by law and for which
‘Consultant isnot appropriately licensed;

wacrants itis financially solvent; it and each ofits employees, agents and
‘Subcontractors are competent to perform the Services required under this
‘Agreement; and Consoltant is legally authorized to execute and perform or
‘cause o be performed this Agreement under the terms and conditions
stated inthis Agreement;

‘warrants that it will not knowingly use the services of any ineligible
‘consultant or Subcontractor for any purpose in the performance ofits
‘Services under this Agreement;

‘warrants that Consultant isnot in default at the time this Agreement is
signed, and has not been deemed by the Chief Procurement Officer to
hhave, within 5 years immediately preceding the date of this Agreement,
‘been found 10 be in default on any contract awarded by the City of
‘Chicago, and has obtained warranties from its Subcontractors substantially
similar in form and substance;

{In accordance with Section 11-4-1600(e) of the Municipal Code of
(Chicago, Contractor warrants and represents that it, and 10 the best of its
knowledge, its Subcontractors have not violated and are not in violation of,
the following sections of the Code (collectively, the Waste Sections}:

7-28-390 Dumping on public way;
7-28-40 Dumping on real estate without permit;
11-4-1410 Disposal in waters prohibited;

11-4-1420 Ballast tank, bilge tank or other discharge;
11-4-1450 Gas manufacturing residue;

1-4-1500 Treatment and disposal of solid or liquid waste;
11-4-1530 Compliance with rules and regulations required;
11-4-1550 Operational requirements; and

1-4-1560 Sereening requirements.

Daring the period while this Contract is exeeutory, Contractor's or any,
‘Subcontractr's violation ofthe Waste Sections, whether or not relating to
the performance ofthis Contract, constitutes a breach of and an event of

‘Revised Janay 26, 2007 (TA) Ey
®

default under this Contract, for which the opportunity to cure, if curable,
will be granted only atthe sole discretion of the Chief Procurement
Officer. Such breach and default entitles the Cty to all remedies under the
‘Contract, at law or in equity.

‘This section does not limit the Contractor's and its Subcontractors’ duty to
‘comply with all applicable federal, state, county and municipal laws,
statutes, ordinances and executive orders, in effect now or later, and
Whether or not they appear inthis Contract.

Non-compliance with these terms and conditions may be used by the City
as grounds forthe termination of this Contract, and may further affect the
Contractor’ eligibility for future contract awards

‘Contractor warrants and represents that nether Contractor not an Affiliate,
1s defined below, appears on the Specially Designated Nationals List, the
Denied Persons List, the Unverified List, the Entity List, or the Debarred
List as maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the US.
Department of the Treasury or by the Bureau of Industry and Security of
the U.S. Department of Commerce or their successors, or on any other list
of persons or entities with which the City may not do business under any
applicable law, rule, regulation, order or judgment.

“affiliate” means a person or entity which directly, or indirectly through
‘one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by or is under common
control with Contractor. A person or eatity will be deemed to be
controlled by another person or entity if itis controlled in any manner
‘whatsoever that results in control in fat by that other person or entity,
either acting individually or acting jointly or in concer with others,
‘whether directly or indirectly and whether through share ownership, a
trust, «contractor otherwise,

‘represents that it has carefully examined and analyzed the provisions and
‘requirements ofthis Agreement; it understands the nature ofthe Services
required; from its own analysis it has satisfied itself as to the nature of all
‘things needed for the performance of this Agreement; this Agreement is
{easible of performance in accordance with all of its provisions and.
requirements, and Consultant warrants it can and will perform, or eause 10
be performed, the Services in strict accordance with the provisions and
requirements ofthis Agreement;

represents that Consultant and, 10 the best ofits knowledge, its
‘Subcontractors are notin violation ofthe provisions of Section 2-92-320

Revised January 26, 2007 (TA) 25
72 Ethies

13

o

@

(O)

‘of Chapter 2-92 of the Municipal Code of Chicago, and in connection with
it, and additionally in connection with the Dinois Criminal Code, 720
ILCS 5/33E as amended, and the Dlinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/11
421-1 and

acknowledges that any cetfiation, affidavit or acknowledgment made
‘underoath in connection with this Agreement is made uader penalty of
eur and if alse, i also cause or temmination under Section 8.1 and
483 ofthis Agreement.

In addition to the foregoing warranties and representations, Consultant
‘warrants:

(no officer, agent or employee ofthe City is employed by
Consultant or has a financial interest directly or indirectly inthis,
‘Agreement of the compensation to be paid under this Agreement
‘except as may be permitted in writing by the Board of Ethics
established under the Municipal Code of Chicago (Chapter 2-156).

(i) no payment, gratuity o offer of employment will be made in
‘connection with this Agreement by or on behalf of any
‘Subcontractors tothe prime Consultant or higher tier
‘Subcontractors of anyone associated with them, as an inducement
for the award of a subcontractor order.

Consultant further acknowledges that any Agreement entered into,
‘negotiated or performed in violation of any ofthe provisions of Chapter 2-
156 is voidable as tothe City

‘Joint and Several Liability

If Consultant, or its successors or assigns, if any, is comprised of more than one
individual or othe legal entity (or a combination of them), then under this

re

‘each and without limitation every obligation or undertaking in this

‘Agroement to be fulfilled or performed by Consultant i the joint and several
‘obligation or undertaking of each such individual or other legal entity.

Revised January 26,2007 (TA) 26
a ett Se

14

1

‘Business Documents

Acthe request of the City, Consultant must provide copies ofits latest articles of
incorporation, by-laws and resolutions, or partnership or joint venture agreement,
1s applicable.

Conflicts of Interest

1

[No member of the governing body ofthe City or other unit of government
and no other officer, employee or agent of the City or other unit of
goverment who exercises any functions o responsibilities in connection
with the Services to which this Agreement pertains is permitted to have
‘any personal interest, direct or indirect, in this Agreement. No member of
‘or delegate to the Congress ofthe United States or the Ilinois General
‘Assembly and no alderman ofthe City or City employee is allowed to be
‘admitted to any share or part of this Agreement or to any financial benefit
to arise from it,

Consultant covenants that it, and to the best of its knowledge, its
Subcontractors if any (collectively, “Consulting Parties"), presently have
no director indirect interest and will not acquire any interest, direct or
{ndirect, in any project or contract that would conflict in any manner or
degree with the performance of its Services under this Agreement.

Upon the request of the City, Consultant must disclose tothe City its past
<lient list and the names of any clients with whom it has an ongoing
‘lationship. Consultant is not permitted to perform any Services for the
City on applications or ther documents submitted to the City by any of
Consultants pastor present clients. If Consultant becomes aware of a
conflict, it must immediately stop work on the assignment causing the
conflict and notify the City

‘Without limiting the foregoing. if the Consuling Parties assis the City in
determining the advisability or feasibility of project rin recommending,
‘eseaching preparing, drafting or issuing a request fr proposals or bid
Specifications fra projec, the Consulting Parties must not pcticipte,
‘recy or indirectly 38a prime, subeontzactror joint vente in that
projector inte preparation ofa proposal or bil for tha projet during the
term of this Agreement o afterwards. The Consiting Pris ma
however, asst the City in reviewing the proposals or bids forthe project,

Resise Jannary 26, 2007 (TA) n
‘rit i a St

6

ARTICLES.

sa

iff none of the Consulting Pates have a relationship withthe persons or
entities that submitted the proposals or bids or that projec.

Consultant further covenants that, in the performance of this Agreement,
no person having any conflicting interest will be assigned to perform any
‘Services or have access to any confidential information, as defined in
Section 2.10 of this Agreement. Ifthe City, by the Commissioner in his
reasonable judgment, determines that any of Consultant's Services for
others conflict withthe Services Consultant is to render forthe City under
this Agreement, Consultant must terminate such other services
immediately upon request ofthe City

Non-Liability of Public Officials

Consultant and any assignee or Subcontractor of Consultant must not charge any
official, employee or agent ofthe City personally with any liability or expenses of
defense ot hold any official, employee or agent of the City personally liable 0
them under any term of provision ofthis Agreement or because ofthe Citys
execution, attempted execution or any breach ofthis Agreement,

EVENTS OF DEFAULT, REMEDIES, TERMINATION, SUSPENSION,
AND RIGHT TO OFFSET

Events of Default Defined

‘The following constitute events of default:

1

‘Any material misrepresentation, whether negligent or willful and whether
inthe inducement or inthe performance, made by Consultant to the City.

‘Consultant's material failure to perform any of its obligations under this
‘Agreement including the following:

Failure due to reason or circumstances within Consultants
reasonable control to perform the Services with sufficient
personnel and equipment or with sufficient material to ensure the
performance ofthe Services;

'b. Failure to perform the Services in a manner reasonably satisfactory
to the Commissioner or the Chief Procurement Officer or inability
to perform the Services satisfactorily as a result of insolvency,
filing for bankruptcy or assignment for the benefit of creditors;

Revised lamary 26 2007 (TA) 28

82

‘c. _ Failure to promptly re-perform within a reasonable time Services
that were rejected as erroneous or unsatisfactory;

4. Discontinuance of the Services for reasons within Consultant's
reasonable contro; and

Failure to comply with any other material term of this Agreement,
including the provisions concerning insurance and
snondiscrimination.

3, Any change in ownership or contol of Consultant without the prior
‘written approval of the Chief Procurement Officer, which approval the
Chief Procurement Officer will not unreasonably withhold.

4. Consultant's default under any other agreement it may presently have or
‘may enter into withthe City during the life ofthis Agreement. Consultant
‘acknowledges and agrees that in the event of a default under this
‘Agreement the City may also declare a default under any such other

‘agreements.
‘5, Failure to comply with Section 6.1 in the performance ofthe Agreement.

6. Consultant's repeated or continued violations of City ordinances unrelated
‘0 ‘under the Agreement that inthe opinion ofthe Chief
Procurement Officer indicate a willful or reckless disregard for City laws
and regulations.

Remedies

“The occurrence of any event of default permits the City, atthe City's sole option,
to declare Consultant in default. The Chief Procurement Officer may in his sole
discretion give Consultant an opportunity to cure the default within a certain
period of time, which period of time must not excred 30 days, unless extended by
the Chief Procurement Officer. Whether to declare Consultant in default is within
the sole discretion ofthe Chief Procurement Officer and neither that decision nor
the factual bass for itis subject to review or challenge under the Disputes
provision of this Agreement,

“The Chief Procurement Officer will give Consultant written notice of the default,
ithe inthe form of a cure notice (“Cure Notice’), o, if no opportunity o cure
Will be granted, a default notice ("Default Notice’). Ifthe Chief Procurement
Officer gives a Default Notice, he will also indicate any present intent he may

Revised Jay 26, 2007 (TA) »
ns is i ig Se

have to terminate this Agreement, andthe decision to terminate (but not the
<ecision not to terminate) is final and effective upon giving the notice. The Chief
Procurement Officer may give a Default Notice if Consultant fails to effect a cure
within the cure period given ina Cure Notice. Whea a Default Notice wit intent
to terminate is given as provided in this Section 8.2 and Article 10, Consultant
‘must discontinue any Services, unless otherwise directed in the notice, and deliver
all materials accumulated in the performance ofthis Agreement, whether
‘completed or inthe process tothe City. After giving a Default Notice, the City
‘may invoke any or all ofthe following remedies, individually or collectively:

1. Theright to take over and complete the Services, or any part of them. at
Consultant's expense and as agent for Consultant, either directly or
through others, and bill Consultant for the cost of the Services, and
‘Consultant must pay the difference between the total amount ofthis bill
‘and the amount the City would have paid Consultant under the terms and.
conditions of this Agreement forthe Services that were assumed by the
City as agent for Consultant under this Section 8.2;

2. ‘Theright to terminate this Agreement as to any oral of the Services yet 10
‘be performed effective a a time specified by the City,

3. Therright of specific performance, an injunction or any other appropriate
equitable remedy,

4, The right to money damages;

5. Theright to withhold all or any part of Consultants compensation under
this Agreement;

6. ‘Theright to deem Consultant non-responsible in future contracts 10 be
awarded by the City.

If the Chief Procurement Officer considers it to bein the City’s best imerest, he
say elect not to declare default or o terminate this Agreement. The parties
cknowledge that this provision is solely for the benefit of the Cty and that ifthe
Cty permits Consultant to continue to provide the Services despite one or more
‘events of default, Consultant isin no way relieved of any ofits responsibilities,
Guties or obligations under this Agreement, nor does the City waive or relinguish
any ofits rights.

The remedies under the terms ofthis Agreement ae not intended o be exclusive
of any other remedies provided, but each and every such remedy is cumulative and

Revised Jannary 26, 2007 (TA) 30
83

{s in addition o any other remedies, existing now or later, at law, in equity or by
statute, No delay or omission to exercise any right or power accruing upon any
‘event of default impairs any such right or power, nor is it a waiver of any event of
{efault nor acquiescence init, and every such right and power may be exercised
from time to time and as often asthe City considers expedient.

Early Termination

In addition to termination under Sections 8.1 and 8.2 ofthis Agreement, the City
‘may terminate this Agreement, or all or any portion of the Services to be
‘performed under it at anytime by a notice in writing from the Cty to Consultant.
‘The City will give notice to Consultant in accordance withthe provisions of
“Article 10. The effective date of termination will be the date the notice is received
‘by Consultant or the dat stated in the notice, whichever is later. I the City elects
to terminate this Agreement in full, all Services to be provided under it must cease
and all materials that may have been accumulated in performing this Agreement,
‘whether completed o inthe process, must be delivered o the City effective 10
Gays after the date the notice is considered received as provided under Article 10
of this Agreement (if no date is given) or upon the effective date stated inthe
notice

“After the notice is received, Consultant must restrict is activities, and those ofits
Subcontractors, to winding down any reports, analyses, or ther activities
previously begun. No costs incurred after the effective date of the termination are
‘Hlowed. Payment for any Services actually and satisfactorily performed before
the effective date ofthe termination ison the same basis as set forth in Article 4,
‘but if any compensation is described or provided for onthe basis of a period
Tonger than 10 days, then the compensation must be prorated accordingly. No
“amount of compensation, however, is permitted for anticipated profits on
tnperformed Services. The City and Consultant must attempt to agree on the
mount of compensation to be paid to Consultant, but if not agreed on, the dispute
must be settled in accordance with Article 5 of this Agreement. The payment so
‘nade to Consultant isin full settlement for all Services satisfactorily performed
under this Agreement

Consultant must include in its contracts with Subcontractors an early termination
provision in form and substance equivalent to this early termination provision to
prevent claims against the City arising from termination of subcontracts after the
arly termination, Consultant will not be entitled to make any early termination
‘laims against the City resulting from any Subcontractor's claims against
Consultant or the City to the extent inconsistent with this provision,

Revised Janay 26,2007 (TA) 3
a4

as

If the City’s election to terminate this Agreement for default under Sections 8.1
and 82 is determined in a court of competent jurisdiction to have been wrongful,
then in that case the termination is to be considered to be an early termination
under this Section 83.

Suspension

‘The City may at any ime request tht Consultant suspend its Services, or any par
‘of them, by giving 15 days prior writen notice to Consultant or upon informal
‘ral, or even no noice, in the event of emergency. No costs incurred after the
effective ate of such suspension ae allowed. Consultant must promply resume
is performance ofthe Services under the same terms and conditions as stated in
this Agreement upon written notice by the Chief Procurement Officer and such
equitable extension of time as may be mutually agreed upon by the Chief
Procurement Officer and Consultant when necessary fo continuation or
completion of Services. Any addtional costs or expenses actually incured by
Consultant a a result of recommencing the Services must be treated in
accordance withthe compensation provisions under Exhbit2 of this Agreement.

'No suspension ofthis Agreement is permitted inthe aggregate to exceed a period
cof 45 days within any one year of this Agreement. Ifthe total number of days of
suspension exceeds 45 days, Consultant by writen notice to the City may teat the
suspension as an early termination of this Agreement under Section 8.3.

Right to. Offset
1. Inconneetion with performance under this Agreement:
‘The City may offset any excess costs incurred:
‘2. ifthe City terminates this Agreement for default or any other
reason resulting from Consultant's performance or non-
performance;

b. ifthe City exercises any ofits remedies under Section 8.2 of this
‘Agreement; or

c._ifthe City has any credits due or has made any overpayments under
this Agreement.

‘The City may offset these excess costs by use of any payment due for
‘Services completed before the City terminated this Agreement or before

Revised January 26,2007 (TA) 2
‘tt etl gn ne Snes

the City exercised any remedies, Ifthe amount offset is insufficient to
‘cover those excess costs, Consultant is liable for and must promptly remit
to the City the balance upon written demand for it. Ths right to offset is
{in addition to and not a limitation of any other remedies available to the
Ci.

2. Inconnection with Section 2-92-380 of the Municipal Code of Chicago:

(i) Tnaccordance with Section 292-380 of the Municipal Code of
Chicago and in addition to any other rights and remedies (including
any of set-off) available to the City under this Agreement or
permited at law or in equity, the ity is entitled to set off a portion
‘ofthe price or compensation due under this Agreement in an
mount equal tothe amount ofthe fines and penalties for each
‘outstanding parking violation complaint and/or the amount of any
debt owed by Consultant to the City. For purposes of this Section
{85 “outstanding parking violation complaint” means a parking
ticket, notice of parking violation or parking violation complaint
‘on which no payment has been made or appearance filed in the
Circuit Court of Cook County within the time specified on the
complaint, "Debt" means a specified sum of money owed to the
CCity for which the period granted for payment has expired.

(i) Notwithstanding the provisions of the above subsection, no such
<ebr(s) oF outstanding parking violation complaints) will be offset
from the price or compensation due under this Agreement if one ot
mote of the following conditions are met:

‘A. Consultant has entered into an agreement withthe
Department of Revenue, ot other appropriate City
‘department, for the payment of all outstanding parking
violation complains and/or debts owed tothe City and
Consultant is in compliance with the agreement; or

B. Consultant is contesting liability for or the amount of the
‘debt in a pending administrative or judicial proceeding: or

C. Consultant has filed a petition in bankruptcy and the debts
‘owed the City are dischargeable in bankruptcy.

3 In connection with any liquidated or unliquidated claims against
Consultant:

‘Revised Janvary 26, 2007 TA) 33
‘Without breaching this Agreement, the City may set off a portion of the
price or compensation due under this Agreement in an amount equal to the
‘amount of any liquidated or unliquidated claims thatthe City has against
‘Consultant ungelated to this Agreement. When the City’s claims against
Consultant are finally adjudicated in court of competent jurisdiction or
otherwise resolved, the City will reimburse Consultant to the extent ofthe
‘amount the City has offset agains this Agreement inconsistently with such
determination or resolution.

ARTICLE 9. GENERAL CONDITIONS

a

Entire Agreement

(@)

©

General

‘This Agreement, and the exhibits, which ate attached to it and
incorporated init, constitute the entire agreement between the parties and
no other terms, conditions, warranties, inducements, considerations,
promises or interpretations are implied or impressed upon this Agreement
that are not addressed inthis Agreement

No Collateral Agreements

‘Consultant acknowledges that, except only for those representations,
statements of promises contained inthis Agreement and any exhibits
attached to it and incorporated by reference ini, no representation,
statement or promise, oral or in writing, of any kind whatsoever. by the
CCity, its officials, agents or employees, has induced Consultant to enter
into this Agreement or has been relied upon by Consultant, including any
‘with reference to: (i) the meaning, correctness, suitability or completeness:
of eny provisions or requirements of tis Agreement; ji the natute of the
‘Services to be performed; (i) the nature, quantity, quality or volume of
‘any materials, equipment, Ibor and other facilites needed for the
performance ofthis Agreement; (iv) the general conditions which may in
‘any way affect this Agreement or its performance; (¥) the compensation
provisions ofthis Agreement; or (vi) any other matters, whether similar ‘0
‘or different from those referred to in (1) through (vi) immediately above,
affecting or having any connection with this Agreement, its negotiation,
“any discussions of its performance or those employed or connected or
‘concerned with it.

‘Revised Janay 2, 2007 (TA) Ed
‘rtm ce et ae See

92

93

(© No Omissions

Constant acknowledges that Consultant was given ample opportunity
and time and was requested by the City to review thoroughly all
document forming this Agreement before signing ths Agreemeat inorder,
‘that it might request incusion inthis Agreement of any statement,
representation promise or provision tha it desired or on tha it wished to
place reliance. Consultant dd so review those documents and ctr
very sch statement, representation, promise or provision hasbeen
Iinchided inthis Agreement o ese, if omitted, Consultant relinquishes the
benefit of any such omited sztement, representation, promise or provision
and is willing to perform his Agreement in is entrey witout claiming
reliance oni or making any other claim on acount ofits omission

Counterparts,

‘This Agreement is comprised of several identical counterparts, each tobe fully
signed by the parties and each to be considered an original having identical legal
effect.

Amendments

‘Except for an upper limit increase to the electronic Purchase Order, no changes,
amendments, modifications or discharge ofthis Agreement, or any part of i are
valid unless in waiting and signed by the authorized agent of Consultant and by
the Mayor, Comptroller, and Chief Procurement Officer ofthe Cty or their
respective successors and assigns. The City incurs no lability for Additional
Services without a written amendment to this Agreement under this Section 9:3

‘Whenever in this Agreement Consultant is required to obtain prior writen
approval, the effect of any approval that may be granted pursuant to Consultant's
‘request is prospective only from the later ofthe date approval was requested or the
date on which the action for which the approval was sought is to begin. In no
‘event is approval permitted to apply retroactively to a date before the approval

‘as requested.

Revised Jamary 26, 2007 (TA) 35
94

9s

96

97

Governing Law and Jurisdiction

This Agreement is governed as to performance and interpretation in accordance
with the laws of the State of Minos.

Consultant irrevocably submits itself tothe original jurisdiction of those courts
located within the County of Cook, State of Tlinois, with regard to any
‘controversy arising out of, relating to, or in any way concerning the execution or
performance ofthis Agreement. Service of process on Consultant may be made,
‘atthe option ofthe City, either by registered or certified mail addressed to the
plicable office as provided for in this Agreement, by registered of certified mail
addressed to the office actually maintained by Consultant, or by personal delivery
‘on any officer, director, or managing or general agent of Consultant. Ifany action
is brought by Consultant against the Cty concerning this Agreement, the action
‘must be brought only in those cours located within the County of Cook, State of
Miinois.

Severability

1 any provision of this Agreement is held or deemed to be or isin fact invalid,
‘legal, inoperative or unenforceable as applied in any particular ease in any
jurisdiction or in all cases because it conflicts with any other provision or
‘provisions ofthis Agreement or of any constitution, statute, ordinance, rule of law
‘ot public policy, or for any other reason, those circumstances do not have the
effect of rendering the provision in question invalid, illegal, inoperative or
‘unenforceable in any other case or circumstances, or of rendering any other
provision or provisions in this Agreement invalid, illegal, inoperative or
‘unenforceable to any extent whatsoever. The invalidity legality, inoperativeness
‘or unenforceability of any one or more phrases, sentences, clauses or sections in
this Agreement does not affect the remaining portions ofthis Agreement or any
part of it.

Assigns
All ofthe terms and conditions of this Agreement are binding upon and inure to

the benefit ofthe parties and their respective legal representatives, successors and
assigns.

Cooperation

Consultant must at all times cooperate fully with the City and actin the City’s best
interests, Wf this Agreement is terminated for any reason, or if it isto expire on its

Revised Jomary 26,2007 (TA) 36
‘own terms, Consultant must make every effort to assure an orderly transition to,
another provider of the Services, if any, orderly demobilization of its own.
‘operations in connection with the Services, uninterrupted provision of Services

<during any transition period and must otherwise comply with the reasonable 5
requests and requirements ofthe Department in connection with the termination

‘of expiration. .

98 Waiver

Nothing inthis Agreément authorizes ie waiver ofa regutrement or coadiion
conta ola o ordinance o that would result in or promote the violation of
‘any federal, state or local law of ordinance.

‘Whenever under this Agreement the City by a proper authority waives
Consultan’ performance in any respect or waives a requirement or condition to
either the Citys or Consultant's performance, the waiver so granted, whether
‘express or implied, oly applies to te particular instance and is nota waiver
forever or for subsequent instances of the performance, requirement o condition.
No such waiver is a modifiction ofthis Agreement regardless of the number of
times the City may have waived the performance, requirement or condition. Such
waivers must be provided to Consultant in writing.

99 Independent Contractor

‘This Agreement isnot iniended to and will nt constitu, create, give rise to, or
otherwise recognize a joint venture, partnership, corporation or other formal
business association or organization of any kind between Consultant and the City.
‘The rights and the obligations ofthe parties are only those set forth inthis
‘Agreement. Consultant must perform under this Agreement as an independent
contractor and not as a representative, employee, agent, or partner of the City

‘This Agreement is between the City and an independent contractor and if
Consultant san individual, nothing provided for under this Agreement constitutes,
or implies an employer-employee relationship such that:

1. The City will not be liable under or by reason of this Agreement for the
‘payment of aay compensation award or damages in connection with
‘Consultant performing the Services required under this Agreement.

2." Consultant is not entitled to membership in the Cty of Chicago Pension

Fund, Group Medical Insurance Program, Group Dental Program, Group
Vision Care, Group Life Insurance Program, Deferred Income Program,

Revised January 26,2007 (TA) 7
9.10

-vacation, sick leave, extended sick leave, or any other benefits ordinarily

provided to individuals employed and paid through the regular payrolls of
the City of Chicago.

3. The City of Chicago is not required to deduct or withhold any taxes, FICA
‘or other deductions from any compensation provided to Consultant.

Electronic Ordering and Invoices

‘The vendor shall cooperate in good faith with the City in implementing electronic
‘ordering and invoicing, including but ot limited to catalogs, purchase orders,
releases, and invoices. Vendor shall accept electronic purchase orders and releases
‘upon request of the Chief Procurement Officer. Vendor shall provide the City
electronic catalogs, copies of invoices and other electronic documents upon.
request. The elecronie ordering and invoice documents shall be ina format
specified by the City and transmitted by an electronic means specified by the City.
Such electronic means may include, but ae nt limited t, disks, e-mail, EDI,
FTP, web sites, and third party elecironc services. The Chief Procurement Officer
reserves the right to change the document fommat and/or the means of tansmission
‘upon written notice tothe vendor. Vendor shall ensue that the essetil
information, as determined by the Chief Procuremeat Officer, in the electronic
document, corresponds to that information submitted bythe vendor ints paper
documents. The electronic documents shall bein ation 1 paper documents
required by this contact, however, by writen notice tothe vendor. the Chief
Procurement Officer may deem any or all ofthe electronic ordering and invoice
<ocument theofficial documents and/or eliminate the requirement for paper
ordering and invoice documents.

ARTICLE 10, NOTICES

"Notices provided for in this Agreement, unless provided for otherwise inthis Agreement, must
bbe given in writing and may be delivered personally or by placing inthe United States mai, first
class and cenified, return receipt requested, with postage prepaid and addressed as follows:

Ito the City: City of Chicago Department of Transportation
30, LaSalle Room 1100

Department of Procurement Services
Room 403, City Hall
121 North LaSalle Street

‘Revised January 26, 2007(TA) 38
Chicago, llinois 60602
Attention: Chief Procurement Officer

With Copies to: Department of Law
Room 600, City Hall
121 North LaSalle Street
‘Chicago, Mlinois 60602
Attention: Corporation Counsel

to Consultant: To the address set foi in the preamble of this Agreement

‘Changes in these adresses must be in writing and delivered in accordance with the provisions of this
“Article 10. Notices delivered by mal are considered received three days after mailing in accordance with
this Anicle 10. Notices deivered personally are considered effective upon receipt. Refusal to accept
delivery has the same effect as receipt.

ARTICLE 11. AUTHORITY

Execution ofthis Agreement by Consultants authorized by a esoltion ofits Board of Director if a
corporation, or simile governing document, and the signature(s) of each person signing on behalf of
CComsltant have been made with complete and fll authority to commit Consultant to all terms and
Conditions of this Agreement, including each and every representation, certification and waranty
Contained int, including the representations, cenifiations and warranties collectively incorporated by
reference init

ARTICLE 12. SPECIAL CONDITIONS REGARDING MBE/WBE COMMITMENT

Inthe performance of the Agreement, the Consultant must abide bythe Minority Business Enterprise and
‘Women Business Enterprise commitment requirements ofthe City of Chicago Municipal Code, Ch. 292,
‘Section 292-420 et. seq (1990) forthe term ofthe Agreement, except othe extent waived by the Chief
Procurement Officer. Such requirement are 169% participation by Minority Business Enterprises and
45% participation by Women Business Enterprises,

“The special conditions governing Minority and Women Business Enterprises are attached hereto 3s
Exhib 3 and are hereby incorporate by reference a if fully set forth herein. Consultants are directed vo
‘Examiae the Special Conditions. At the time a City of State funded Task Order is issued, the Consultant
{hus submit an MBEAWBE compliance plan including MBE/WBE C-3 & D-3 documents, s part of its
proposal fo the Task Order.

“The Consultant will be required to submit an MBE/WBE Uiilzation Report copy attached, upon
Completion ofeach tsk order, The Uiilization Report must be sent tothe City of Chicago, Deparment
‘Of Procurement Services, Division of Contract Monitoring and Compliance, Room 400, City Hal, 121
North LaSalle Sweet, Chicago TL, 60602. The MBE/WBE Utilization Reports mus reflect actual
“Amounts paid to each MBE/WBE firm that participated on the Task Order. At the end of the Contract
period, the MBEYWBE dolar participation achieved willbe calculated against the total value ofthe
Pombined City and Site funded ask orders to determine the total pa participation achieved toward the
goal

[Signature Page 10 follow]

Revised January 26, 207 (TA) 39
eA gt et

SIGNED at Chicago, Minois:.

ervorcjacaco
by Leta Habiy ee
aa
bm 5 LP

Recommended By:
Commissioner
Earth Tech, Inc.
By.

Is. r
(resident or Authorized Officer)

‘State of Lili
County of th

‘This insrument was acknowledged berg me of/25/Rdne) by Megran Ke Hache
(name/s of person/s) as Aurharizad Offices (type of authority, eg. officer, trustee, ete.) of

stp on Ch foe a
@cc~

(Signature of Notary Public)

ane
ms
Pe
wae ee

‘Revised January 26 2007(TA)

CORPORATE AUTHORIZATION RESOLUTION

1, Chmes Aipert the undersigned Assistant Secretary of Bath Tech, Ine. (he
“Corporation” hereby certify tha the Corporation is duly organized and existing under
‘the laws ofthe State of California und the following isa tm, accurate and complete
‘ranscrpt ofa resolution contined in the minnte book of the Board of Dieotors of the
Corporation daly eld on January 2 2008, at which meeting thee was present and
‘cting throughout «quorum wuthorized to ansact busines hereinafier described, and that
the proceedings of sid meeting were in sccordance withthe charter and by-laws of the
‘Corporation and that sid resolution hat not ben amended o revoked andi in ful force
and effect:

RESOLVED, that Meghan Harte, Vice President of the Corporation, be and
‘bere authorized and enipowered to sign Contract No, 167208, Requisition No. 34410,
Specification No. 59098, with the City of Chicago, Deparment of General Services for
‘Professional Construction Management Services, and all related documents on bebalf of
the Corporation, and to take suc steps, and so sich other acts and things, a8 in er
judgment may be necersary, appropriate or desirable i connection with the foregoing
saat,

‘Witness my band and eal of he Corporition this 22" day of January, 2008.

Optul, Ul

ay

‘ms a end Pes

‘EXHIBIT 1

‘Scope of Services and Schedule for Performance (Task Orders)

eviedJansary 26 2007 (TA)
SCOPE OF SERVICES
Construction Management Services

‘The Consirction Management Consultant shall be expected to perform the following Services:
A. Preconstruction Phase

1. Secure the services of any necessary Specialty Consultants with the approval of the
Department of General Services.

2 Consult with the Department of General Services and the User Agency regarding
{he goals and requirements ofthe project including the development of the project
LEED progam.

3._ Review the requirements of any federal, state or local agencies having jurisdiction
‘over various aspects ofthe project with Departmen of General Services regarding
costs and alernasives,

4. Review budget esimates atthe completion of Programming, Schematic Design,
Design Development and Contract Documents. Upon completion of Design
Development, prepare detiled cost estimate indicating quantity takeoffs for every
trade. This estimate wil become the contol estimate through the design process.

5. Prepare a cashflow analysis ofthe project including services performed by the
Design Team.

6. Recommend potential value engineering alteatives throughout the Design Phase

7. Review the progress of drawing preparation and advise the Design Team with
fespect to availabilty and price of material, avoidance of jurisdictional disputes,
feasibility and construcabiliy of detail.

8. Develop an overall design schedule and coordinate the schedule with the
Departinent of General Services desired project completion date

9. Review the Department of General Services project budget and report othe
Department of General Services the status of project cost at milestones approved by
the Department of General Services. Milestones shall beat a minimum 30%, 60%,
‘90% and 100% completion of he design documents.

10, Prepare detailed cost estimates based on information developed by the Design Team
‘uring the Design Phase. The estimate shall contain the following:

1. An overview ofthe current budget compared to Department of
General Service's project estimate

'. A budget Summary and Division Breakdown (Use CSI or Uniform)
8s directed by the Department of General Services.

‘¢. A detailed comparison and reconciliation of the current budget to the
previous budget. with an explanation of any variance by component
4. Asummary of all approved budget revisions

1 Acash low analysis ofthe project based on the latest budget
‘information

Prepare a Computerized CPM schedule using Primavera Engineering and
‘Construction software. The schedule shall clearly idemify each phase of the project
‘and indicae early and ate srt and finish dates, oat times and percent completion
‘of each task. Recommend a method forthe delivery ofthe project based onthe
Department of General Service's goals and requiements,

12, Participate in valve engineering and evaluste proposed foundation, strcturl,
electrical, and mechanical systems s to quality, fst cost and life cycle cost,
‘onsruetability union jurisdiction, availabilty and effects on funding Mlexibility.

13, Prepare a monthly report which wil include a summary ofthe project status,
schedule and budget snd a pending issves log as determined by the Department of
General Services.

14, Consult with the Department of General Services and User Agency regarding issues
‘hich impact the consructability and project schedule.

15, Kdemfy long fad time items and recommend tothe Department of General
Services methods of procurement to achieve the project schedule.

16, Prepare a ade by trade cost estimate

17, Prepare a procurement and bd package schedule as directed by the Deparment of
General Services.

1B, Expedite approvals and coordination issues between federal, state and local
‘agencies to obtain any required permits, licenses and fees forthe project.

19, Conduct period progress meeting (atleast once per week) with the Department of
General Services, User Agency and the appropriate Design Team members and
contractors. Prepare meeting minutes and distribute to all partes in attendance
‘within five (5) business days.

B. Bid and Award Phase
1 Attend the Pre-bid conference, assist the Department of General Services andthe
Design Team with presenting the project and answering any questions from the
bidders.

2, Assist the Deparment of General Services and the Design Team in the development
and distribution any Addendum.

3, Review bids and prepare an evaluation and recommendation for award 2 directed
by the Depament of General Services
. Construction Phase

Review and monitor. ona periodic basis, the general contractor's baseline and
\pdated schedules for compliance withthe individual general contract milestone
dates and the Master CPM milestone dats using Primavera Project Planner. ln
instances where schedule slippage andor schedule conflicts ae forcast o docu,
rake recommendations tothe Department of General Services as to how to remedy
the Schedule slippage and/or schedule confi,

Conduct weekly meetings wit the Department of General Services, User Ageney,
Design Team, specialty consultants and general contractor. Review the project
Schedule, submitals, scope change, request for information, outstanding bulletins,
‘ending issues and field problems. Prepare meeting minutes and distribute to all
ries i auendance within five (S) busines days,

Expedite approvals and coordination issues between federl state and local
‘agencies to obtain any required permit, licenses and fees

Review and approve all payment applications and submit payment requests for
‘spproval and payment by the Department of General Services,

‘Maintain a fulltime project manager asthe primary point of contract withthe
Department of General Services, User Agency, Design Team members and general
contracor.

Establish anon site organization lie of authority to implement all constuction
hase ofthe project in a coordinated and efficient manne.

Establish and implement procedures for. and maintain coordination among. the
Department of General Services, the User, Design Team. gencral conracer,
ther agencies having jurisdiction of the projet wih respec to all eonsinetion
Aspects ofthe project.

Coordinate the procurement and assembly of all requires permits, licenses, and
<emificates from the general contractor and arrange delivery of same to the
Department of General Services,

‘Coordinate all aspects of the work with any quasi-public agencies or uty
‘companies involved inthe project.

‘Conduct ste observations ofthe general contractor io ensure that work on the
project is progressing on schedule and accordance withthe requitements ofthe
Department of General Services and the contract documents

Inthe event that the interpretation ofthe meaning and inteat ofthe contract
‘documents becomes necessary during construction, ascertain the architect's
Interpretation and transmit such information 1o the general contractor and othe
Department of General Services
Review the adequacy ofthe supervision personnel and equipment and the
availability of necessary materials and supplies. Where inadequate direct thatthe
necessary action be taken to remediate the deficiency.

Develop and maintain quality inspection contol system so that the required
standards of consrution are achieved. If Quality Control deficiencies ae found
issue a Quality Control Deficiency Report (QDR). Maintain a log indicating the

status of all QDR's,

Review alltsting required by the technical sections ofthe specifications and
applicable codes and regulations for compliance withthe contract documents

Receive and review al shop drawings, materials and all other required submitals
‘rior to transmial of these documents to the Department of General Service's
‘Architect of Record. Requests for approval of subcontractors, delivery schedules,
‘materi lists, shop drawing, samples, and the lke will be commented upon ad
submited tothe Depaiment of General Services for concurring approval.

Monitor and implement the flow of all documents and materials for proper sequence
‘of approvals so as not to delay the progres ofthe work,

Establish and mainain on the site a complete library of all contract documents,
‘addenda, bulletins, scope changes. approved shop drawings and material samples.

Receive and review al change order requests from the general contractor. Review
unit prices time and material changes and siilar tems. Submit recommendations
te the Department of General Services for approval

Review all cope of changes proposed by the department of General Services, the
‘User Agency, andlor design team and make recommendations regarding practicality,
costs, effect on completion schedule and risk to the project.

Monitor requests for change orders require by field conditions and other
unforeseen conditions and submit such requests to the Department of General
Services. Make recommendations regarding practicality costs, effect on completion
schedule and isk othe project.

Monitor all scope changes during construction to ensure compliance with
approved revisions.

Follow the specifications andthe Department of General Services procedures for
processing scope changes, including aplication fr extensions of

“Mainuain cos accountng records of the work performed in accordance with the
specifications and ihe Deparment of General Services procedures.

‘Assist the Department of General Services, the Design Team and the LEED
‘Consultant inthe coordination and collection ofthe Contractor's LEED deliverables.

25, Assis the Department of General Services the Design Team andthe project
‘Commissioning Agent in the coordination and implementation ofthe
Commissioning process.

26, Prepare a Monthly Report containing the following:

1. Executive Summary ~ include a summary of financial stats,
highlights of major evens and 2 schedule summary

._ Status of Construction - summarize project construction activites,
including eurent aavcipaed start and completion dates by project
elements

‘&.Oxtstanding hems include items to be completed by the
CConstretion Management Consulta, the design team members, the
Department of General Services, User and general contactor.

4. Purchasing Activity - dew curren status of materials procurement
based upon information received fom the general contractor.

Budget Status Report include a summary of anticipated costs and
satus of scope changes that ae approved, pending. and/or anticipated.

{Schedules - include construction schedule indicating curent project
‘Satu (both in CPM and summary bar chart form), Updaied cash low
‘anda look-ahead plan forthe following period.

Progress Photographs ~ arrange for production and distribution of
progress photographs as required by the Department of General
Services. Photographs shall be digital and provide the date and
projet location ofthe photograph

‘ctvties ofthe project nthe upcoming month. actions tobe taken
‘daring ha period, and any Scheduled governing agency review/
approvals ete

|. Other = include such ational or revised information as shall be
required by the Department of General Services.

ji Current status ofthe Contractor's LEED deliverables

1. Current Staus ofthe Commissioning process.

D. Project Close Out

1. Conduct a comprehensive fina inspection of the project 0 verify thatthe materi
fornshed and work performed are in accordance with the contract documents.
Coordinate the preparation of punch iss indicating the items of work remaining 10
be accomplished. Coordinate the completion of such items in an expeditious manner.
Prepare cenificates of preliminary and final completion in consultation withthe
Department of General Services

‘Assemble and deliver tothe Department of General Services all guarantees,
‘warranties, operating and maintenance manuals required by the conuact documents
Coordinate equipment and systems training sessions for User Agency personnel,
‘Make recommendations as 1 the withholding of payments tothe gencral contactor
Determine the value of any uncorrected andor deficient work.

Expedite the preparation of "as-built" drawings and operations and maintenance
‘manuals ofthe project in accordance withthe specifications, The “as-built”
documents willbe subject to the approval ofthe Construction Management
‘Consulunt. Submit approved "as-bul” documents wo the Department of General
‘Services upon completion ofthe project.

‘Assist the Department of General Services, the Contractor, the Design Team and the
LEED consultant inthe development of the Final LEED submission othe USGBC.

Assist the Department of General Services, the Contractor, the Design Team andthe
Commissioning Agent in the development ofthe Final Commissioning Report.

Participate inthe 10 mooth evaluation ofthe project wo identity any contractor

Pantcipate with the Commissioning Agent and facility maintenance staff inthe 10
‘month and seasonal evaluations of the building systems. Make suggestions for
improvements or changes in the operations of the building systems.
Attachment A.

Key Personnel
City of Chicago
Professional Construction Management Services
Requisition No.: 34110,

Earth Tech
Key Personne
Mike MeCue

John Stevens
Dave Van Rensburg
Fm Name: EARTH TECH INC. ome owr207

Determination: Prepusifeatonsequetad et Belewot ES
Prequmieatin grnied at sovelet ES

‘The ftoing as hve been noted incr rw four Eonar Qvsiennae,
you wish fo sb ado ocuestaton, lease dos as soon as poste

Somer

 ssioce ou fm curenty as 4 progutad Envtonmanal sch Ms. Dara wa not coder
Se eager wover sa hasbeen proqetod or bot Easy and Wate ae ES el,

1 The mache et shows a veal ich each amber of ous ha bean pruned Plnase
‘Wisin kt ven tet Statements face on Prolessina! Trnspoton Beth
oc

PREQUALIFED ENVRONMENTAL STAFF

‘PRU EARTH TECH, NC

Level Request: ES

Leet Granted

“The feoning lt cantina meet he mini rarer fo endremaral en) and
{he entrant duopaespescrbns nh ans reneenpetal fea precilieation
ase mote ut steel leas) sn rere specie ae aed th evel
‘orenmerinl pat tha ey Qua opercm.

‘ony ese nal (elev) which hy ar aig my be opted nour tis

‘Stneest erst whan eran to pee

2 sovaned in rte rarupariaton Bln,

‘Should you eae ure coer you ran Susi sapien se Guetiomae br Errore
‘Sanson scr tne ove em aporoved ps your Sllemartetest ibital.
‘erates you are reared Weep ny changes ery personel oe Conte! Unk 15 wenn days

ote change.

5

Chamtie. Cr

Fuchs, Randy
Yer Fora
Chambon ci

Seelofzonomics

Durban ends

Water

‘Rowe-Krandck. Sapten
Becuber Janes
Doni, Stamnes
end Ginn

Putte sa or Pube vlvemen,

oon Jone

Q959 08 oO coDDOKD g

S888 SO 880 sENEKKN F

ra, Sens
Chaney.
Fuse, Randal
(et Jonas

Priest for Techn tng
ed
ese, Bam

aoe, Rancit
Attachment B

‘Schedule of Performance
Schedule of Performance

‘This Agreement takes effect as of its execution by the City(“Effective Date"), and will continue for 69
‘oaths, or until the Agreement is terminated in accordance with its tems, whichever occurs first.

In the event that the Consultant is assigned a Task Order that is approved by the Chief Procurement Officer
prior to the expiration of this Agreement, including extension options, the Task Order will continue until
project completion or until the Agreement is terminsted in accordance with it terms.

‘Task Orders

‘The Commissioner will provide the Consultant with a Task Order form and procedures after contract award.
‘Consultant acknowledges and agrees thatthe City is under no obligation to issue any Task Order requests
for Services.

{Upon the written approval ofthe Commissioner, the Department will isue a Task Order Request ("TOR")
specifically referencing this Agreement, identifying the project, and setting forth the Services 10 be
performed pursuant to the proposed TOR and a desired completion date. Consultant must respond by
roposing atime schedule, budget, deliverables and alist of key personnel (as requested), all of which must
conform to the terms of the Task Order request and the tems and conditions of this Agreement
Additionally, Consultant must include Schedule C-3 & D-3 which outline MBE/WBE or DBE.
‘Commitments and supporting documents related to the Task Order. Costs associated with the preparation
‘of Task Orders are not compensable under this Agreement and the City isnot liable for any additional costs
Consultant must not respond to any TOR not approved in writing by the Commissioner,

Following Consultant's submission of the Task Oréer proposal, the Commissioner and the Chief
Procurement Officer will review the Task Order and may elect to approve it, reject it, or use it asa basis for
further negotiations with the Consultant regarding the scope of the project and the project completion date.
If the City and the Consultant negotiate the scope of the project and the project completion date, the
Consultant must submit a revised Task Order proposal (based upon such negotiations) to the City for
approval.

Ail Services mast be authorized by an approved Task Order, All Task Orders are subject to the approval of
the Chief Procurement Officer and a0 Task Order will become binding upon the City until itis approved,
in writing by the Chief Procurement Officer. Absent approval ofa Task Order by the Chief Procurement
Officer, the City will not be obligated to pay or have any liability, under any theory of recovery (whether
tunder the Agreement, at law or in equity) tothe Consultant for any Services provided by the Consultant
pursuant ta Task Order, or otherwise.

If the Services to be performed under a Task Order are to be funded from a fund other than the fund
‘identified by the fund number set forth in tis Agreement, such change in funding must be approved by the
Chief Procurement Officer and the Comptroller prior tothe issuance of any Task Order funded through such
fund, and the applicable fund number must be included in the Task Order form provided to the Consultant.

Notice to Proceed

‘The Consultant will commence its Services immediately upon receipt of an executed Notice to Proceed
issued by the Commissioner or his authorized designee.
Attachment C

Project Insurance Requirements
PI SIONAL SERVICES INSUI REQUIREMEN!
Department of General Services
Construction Management Services for
Various City Projects

‘The Consultant must provide and maintain at Consuitant's own expense, during the term of this
‘Agreement and any bme peried folowing expiration i Consultant is required to retutn and perform
‘any of the Services oF Additonal Services under this Agreement, the insurance coverage and
fequrrements specified below, insuting ail operations related to the Agreement

‘A. INSURANCE TO BE PROVIDED
1) Workers Compensation and Emolovers Liability
Workers Compensation Insurance, as prescribed by applicable law covering al employees

who are to provide a service under this Agreement and Employers Liabilty coverage with
limits of not less tran $$00,000 each accident, liness or isease.

2) Commercial General Liability (Primary and Umbrella)

‘Commercial General Liability Insurance or equivalent wih mits of notless tan $2,000,000
‘per occurence for bodily injury, personal injury, and property damage liability, Coverages:
Fhust include the folowing: All premises and operations, products/completed operations,
Separation of insureds, detense, and contractual ial (wth a9 limitation endorsement).
‘The City of Chicago isto be named as an additional insured on a primary, non-contributory
basis for any labilty arising directly or indirectly trom the Services,

‘Suocontractors performing Services for Consultant may maintain limits of not less than
$1,000,000 with he same terms herein.

3) Automobile Liability (Primary and Umbrella)

When any motor vehicles (owned, non-owned and hired) are used in connection wih
‘Services to Be performed, the Consuitant must provide Automobile Liablty Insurance with
limits of not less than $2,000,000 per occurrence for badlyinury and property Gamage. Tho
‘Gayo! Chicagoist be named as an additional insured on a primary, non-controutory bass.

‘Suocontractors performing Services for Consultant may maintain limits of not less than
$1,000,000 with tne same terms herein.

4) Professional Liability

When any architects, engineers, construction managers, project managers, or other
professional consulta perform Services in connection with this Agreement, Professional
Eisbity Insurance covering acts, erors, or omissions must be maintained with limits of not
fess than $2,000,000 When policies are renewed or replaced, the policy retroactive ate
must colneide wih or precede star of workon the Agreement. A.claims-made policy which
IB not renewed or roplaced must have an extended reporting period of two (2) year.

‘Subcontractors pertorming Services for Consultant may maintain limits of not less than
'$1,000.000 with ne same terms herein.

5) Valuable Papers

‘When any plans, designs, drawings, specications, media, data, records, reports and other
‘documents are producedor used under tis Agreement, Valuable Papers insurance must be
maintained in an amount to insure against any loss whatsoever, and must have Emits
Sufficient to pay forthe re-creation and reconstruction of such records.

© —Baisoad Protective Liability

When any work isto be done adjacent oor on rairoad or transit propery, Consultant must
provide, with respec to the operations that Consultant or subcontractors perform, airoad
Protective Liaity Insurance n the name of raliroad or ransit entity. The policy must have
imis of not less than the requirement of the operating rairoad for losses arising out of
injuries to or death of al persons, and for damage o or destruction of property, including the
loss of use thereat

7) Property

‘Consultant must be responsible for lloss or damage to personal property (cluding but not
limited to material, equipment, tools and supplies), owned, rented, or uses by Consustant.

“Consultant must be responsible for allloss or damage to City property at replacement cost
‘a8 a result ofthe Agreement.

B. ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:

“The Consultant must fumish the Cty of Chicago, Department of Procurement Services, City Hal,
Room 403, 121 North LaSalle Street 60602, original Certicates of insurance, or such similar
‘endence, to be in force on the date ofthis Agreement, and Renewal Cerificate of Insurance, or
‘Such similar evidence, if the coverages have an expiration or renewal date occurting during the term
of iis Agreement. The Consultant must submit evidence of insurance on the City of Chicago
Insurance Certificate Form (copy attached) or equivalent prior to Agreement award. The receipt of
any certlicate does not constiute agreement by the City that the insurance requirements in the
‘Agreement have been fuly met or that the insurance policies inicated on the certificate are in
‘complance with al Agreement requirements. The failure of the Cito obtain certicates or other
Insurance evidence from Consutlantis nota waiver by the City of any requirements for Consultant
‘obtain and maintain the speciied coverages. The Consultant must advise all insurers oft
‘Rgreement provisions regarding insurance. Non-conforming insurance does nat relave Consultant
othe obligation o provide insurance as specified herein, Non-tuliiment of the insurance conestons
‘may consttute @ violation of the Agreement, and the City retains the right o stop work untl proper
tevidence of insurance Is provided, or the Agreement may be terminated.

‘The insurance must provide for sixty (60) days prior witen notice to be given tothe City inthe event
coverage is substantally changed, canceled, or nor-renewed.

[Any deductibles or selt-insured retentions on referenced insurance coverages must be bore by
Consuitant

‘The Consuitant hereby waives and agrees to require their insurers 10 waive thei rights of
‘subrogation against he City of Chicago, its employees, elected officals, agents, orepresentatves.

“The coverages and limits furnished by Consuitant in no way limit the Consultants liabilities and
responsipites speciied within he Agreement or by law.
‘Any insurance or sellinsurance programs maintained by the City of Chicago 60 not contribute with
insurance provided by the Consultant under the Agreement.

‘The required insurance to be carried is not limited by any limitations expressed in the
indemnification language in this Agreement or any limitation placed on the indemnity in this
‘Agreement given as a matter of law.

Consultant joint venture or imited Fabilty company, the insurance policies must name the joint
venture or imited lability company as a named insured.

Consultant must require ail subcontractors to provide the insurance required herein, or Consultant
‘may provide the coverages for subcontractors. All subcontractors are subject fo the same insurance
‘requirements of Consultant unless otherwise specified in this Agreement.

f Consultant or subcontractors desire addtional coverages, the party desiring the addtional
coverages is responsible fr the acquisiton and cost.

‘The City of Chicago Risk Management Deparment maintains the right to madly, delete, ater or
change these requirements.
© EarthTech sesamin 132773800
1900 wen mew ee

January 16,2008

Ms. Elvia Fernandez
Director of Contract Administration
City of Chicago

Department of Procurement Services
City Hall, Room 403

121 North LaSalle Street

Chicago, linois 60602

RE: _ Professional Construction Management Services
‘Contract No.: 16724
Requisition No.: 34410
Specification No.: 59098

Dear Ms. Femandez:

Please find attached proof of our firm's insurance as required per the above referenced
contract. Per your letter of December 31, 2007, we understand that we will not be
required to submit proof of Railroad Protective Liability Coverage at this time. We
further understand that if we are assigned a future task where its required we will
famish the requisite proof of Railroad Protective Liability Coverage.

‘Should you have any questions in this regard please contact Mike McCue at (312) 777-
5568. Thank you for this opportunity.

Vice President, Facility Operations
MARSH EVIDENCE OF PROPERTY INSURANCE ([wvc-cozsss0.01

SRRRE wouran msuRasce co

iwes nemon YOM 12 Mere ache atid,
eee Rat Conroe

Parone me) ete Ate
ns tonconsno oe

seo arnt
emrarcsgo ed ore ane
fnwiasate'st oes o-~
CCAD. oe rascal

wrseenkarg | See
es ven vaio as or: 02/19/08

MARSH

tear

ees

fuss crecnreoree PL

~ CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE

SE NSar ama Sse Fax sees

ERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE __(csascsreaat |

spe a
Et

1 nn norte Camotry

caeeriond

a SESE camer — ozs
A sro) ferroor vrais ee
le 8570) ferroor ae somos
le erated (enser___|owaoe ‘00am
G ar oto an BOOTS — nba? —Tronso oaroe|

Yoonsz

fepaeeorrecatrarern cesta

SBE Ste PEGS Sy Gon we OF Te oes

STATE KOTOR

CET

from Yao Na ia
omy ‘au as oF: ov6008

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

ver

WORKERS COMPERSATIN COVERAGE
Stace roucre
cs avemeay rowe assunance co

onmnamreeres

ca gamaace a neustmr ns co,

ce gue one assinance co

Micneet) Veo ND Ui

i a tig Se

EXHIBIT 2
Schedule of Compensation

Revised January 26, 2007 (TA)
“uk ner Agere Re 10407)

COMPENSATION AND METHOD OF PAYMENT

COSTS PLUS FIXED FEE

Compensation Components

Consultant will be compensated forts Services bated on actual cost pus a fixed fee. Allowability
tnd allocability of costs will be determined in accordance with the terms and conditions of this
‘Agreement. Compensation wll consist of: 1] the cost of labor; 2]. the overhead and burden,
including but nt limited to payroll related axes, insurance and fringe benefits; 3] certain direct costs;
4} Subcontractors; ad 5] a fixed fee, 8 described below:

4. Labor Costs: Labor costs will consist of the actual cost of all allowable and allocable salaries
and wages (exclusive of overtime premiums and payroll related taxes, insurance and fringe
‘benefits paid to Consukan+ and Subcontractors’ employees forthe time spent inthe performance
of Services under this Agreement (collectively, "Labor Costs"). Maximum Hourly Labor Rates
foe Consultant by position classification are set forth n Attachment Ato this Exhibit. Position
Classifications and maximum wage rates may be changed only by amendment a described in
‘Amicle 9.3 ofthe Agreement and become effective the date the amendment is fully executed and
approved. Subcontractors positon classifications and Maximum Hourly Labor Rates will be
“proved and set forth on Task Order basis. Hourly Labor Rates approved ona Task Order will
remain effective until completion ofthe Task Order. Labor Costs associated with Consultant and
‘Subeomtractor principals for administrative sks are ot reimbursable. Principals may bill for
[Labor Costs for non administrative task dretly applicable to the Services ony by request and
prior approval ofthe City. Maximum rates must conform to limits in effect within the curent
policy of IDOT.

2. Overhead and Burden: Overhead and burden will consist of actual indirect costs of the home
‘and branch offices of Consultant and Subcontractors which are allowable and allocable tothe
Services (collectively, Overhead"). The Overhead rates et forth in subsection ()betow will be
applied to Labor Costs fr purposes of invoicing.

a Avdits

“The City eserves the right to audit Consultant's and/or Subcontracors’ Overhead rte(s)
andlor any ofthe components ofthe compensation. The Consultant mast have an annual audit
performed by a Certified Public Accountant in accordance with the Federal Acquisition
‘Regulations, 48 CFR 1, Part 31 (FAR).

bi. Overhead rates

“Subject othe limvtation set forth in 2(c) below, the Overhead rate appicablesp Consultant
‘employees who perform Services in elation toth is Agreement is

‘The Overhead rate applicable to Consultant employees who perform Services in relation to
hos Agreement is the Consultant’ audited rate approved by {DOT or another cognizant
authority. The Consultant must provide evidence of approval ofthe rate by [DOT or another
‘Cognizant authority ona yearly bass. The Consultant's Overhead rate will be revised for
ure yeas within the contact period atthe ime a Task Order is approved and assigned to
the Consultant in accordance with changes approvedby IDOT or another cognizant authority.

‘Overhead rates applicable to Subcontractors’ employees must be documented inthe same
‘manner as forthe Consultant and submited ina Task Onder proposal

[Nocwihstanding the foregoing the City and the Consultant may negotiate lower Overhead.
rates, Any changes in Overhead rates resulting from negotiations mast be approved by the
ro.

& Limitation on Overhead

In the event the Consultant andlor Subcontractor does not have an approved rate, the
compensation dve to Consultant for overhead will not exceed 150 % for office work, 125%
Tor field offices, and 100% for field inspectors without an office. The Consultant and
‘Subcontractors have one year in which to ge an Overhead rate approved by IDOT or another
cognizant authority. Consultant's and Subcontractors Overbead rate may notexced the lowest
Of: (a) te curent rate determined by IDOT; () the rate determined at later date by IDOT; ot
() the rate determined a later date by an audit acceptable tothe City. The City has the right
torecaprure the difference between the amount ithas actually paidto Consultan and the amount
it should have paid under the preceding sentence.

3. Direct Cost: Direct costs will consis of those costs described below which:

{_ ae incurred inthe performance of Services under ths Agreement;

ar allowable and allocable tothe project:

i) are not inched in Overhead: and

iv] are routinely and uniformly charged o specific projects under Consultant's accounting system
(collectively, "Direct Costs).

‘Any expensinure in excess of $5,000 which qualifies as «Direct Cost will equite prior approval
ofthe Commissioner. Consultant may ot break down aa which would otherwise be
‘rater than $5,000 in order toavoi this approval requirement. Al irect Costs must not exceed,
[DOT's curent allowable rates, as published inthe IDOT Profesional Transportation Bulletin.
Direct Coat wll include the following:

‘a. Drawings, Printing and Reproduction Costs. The costs of all printing, binding and
reproduction related ony to the production of the milestone submitals tothe City

b. Telephone/Telegraph and Shipping Costs. Long distance telephone calls, postage,
‘messenger and overnight delivery costs. Cell phone and radio communication services are
allowed for Construction Engineering field service ony.

¢ Travel and Related Expenses. Out of own ravel i not anticipated under this Agreement.
However, should out of town travel become necessary in the performance of the Services,
Consultant mast obain prior written approval from the City forexpenses elated. travel into
‘or out ofthe Cy. All sich expenses must conform with the City’s travel reimbursement
[uidelines,acopy of which i atached here as Attachment B. Expenses incured for avel
in Chicago willbe subject to Group! Limitations asset forth in the Citys guidelines.

‘The Cixy will pay current auto mileage 10 Consultant andlor Subcontractors for travel

ak ne Agama Re 10407 2
associated within project site visitas required bythe Commissioner. The auto milage rate
within current City policy is set for in Atachment B and may be amended fromtime to time
by the City Office of Budget & Management

4. Equipment, Tools and Vehicles. Cost of any equipment tools, furniture, computer
‘equipment, or vehicles hired/eased or purchased for Consultant's performance ofthe Services,
provided that any such item purchased will become the property of the City and further
provided that Consultant mis obtain price written approval of the City forthe purchase, hire
Brlease of such equipment, tools, furniture, computer equipment or vehicles to the extent any
‘expenditure willbe in excess of $200.

Permits and Fees. Coss to Consultant for permits and fees, if any, required to cary out the
Services, excep for normal business and professional fes (which Consultant may include in
its Overhead cost pool).

{. Premiom on overtime, Tothe exten that Consultant pays its employees a premium inexcess
ofits hourly rates for overtime spent on te project, the cos of the premium will be treated as,
8 Direct Cost which will ot be included in Labor Cost and which wil not be subject 10
‘pplication ofany Overhead ate, Any such overtime must be inaccordance withConsltant’s
policies which ae subject to prior approval by the City.

& Miscellaneous. Any other costs or expenses incured by Consultant as reasonable and
necessary forthe proper performance ofthe Services and allowable and direct allocable to
the project. Any expenditure in excess of $1,000 will requie prior approval of the
Commissioner.

4. Subcontractors. The City will reimburse Consultant for the costs of Subcontractors as those
Costs are incurred under or nconrection with Subcontracts awarded by Consultant in accordance
‘With the terms and conditions ofthis Agreement, subject to the City's prior written approval

“The costs of Subcontractors whichare reimbursable to Consultant wil include the Subcontractors’
Labor Costs, Oveshead, fixed fe and Direct Coss and ae subject to those tems and limitations
cstablished for Labor Costs, Ovebead and Direct Costs as outlined inthis Exhibit2. In no event
{s Consultant entitled ro any mark-up of Subcontractor costs

5, Fixed Fee. The City wll pay Consultant a fixed fee (“Fixed Fee”) amount as an allowance for
profitto be earnedin the performance of Services under this Agreement by Consultant Consultant
fray receive progress payments on Fixed Fee ony in such amount proportionate to the Services
{htsfactorly performed as ofthe date of the invoice. However, Consultant will not be ented 10
feceive a portion ofthe Fixed Fee which exceeds the percent of progress achieved by Consultant
{sof the date ofthe invoice in relation wo the Services. In any even. progress payments on Fixed
‘Fee will not exceed the amount set forth above inthe ageregae. For purposes of payment ofthis
Fixed Fee satisfactory completion ofthe Services means the provision by Consultant of acceptable
Deliverables andthe timely achievement of milestones, and wil not be construed solely in terms,
‘of expenditure of Consultants time

For purposes of determining the fied fee foreach Task Order. the City,
‘will egotiate the Consultants profit aa fixed fee dollar amount ona Task Order basis.

a er Ape 18) 3
6. Maximum Compensation,

“The Upper Limit under this Agreement may no exceed
$ 3,000,000.000UR).

Fund Number: 007-0100-0382120-0140-220140.

Upper Limit Increase. The Chief Procurement Officer may approve an increase tothe
«electronic Purchase Order, should the Upper Limit be exhausted due tohigh utilization.
‘The following requirements must be met prior to CPO"s consideration for approval: a)
the User Department must submit a written request to the Department of Procurement
Services explaining the need1o utilize the Agreement, including acopyof the Task Order
‘Request and b) a justification explaining why the Services cannot be performed under
another Task Order Agreement,

1B. Method of Payment

1. Invoices. Once each month, Consultant mus submit tothe City an invoice for Services performed
uring the preceding month. Consultant must supper each invoice with reasonable detail
{nclusing Subcontractor costs. In accordance with the lerms ofthe Agreement, Consultant must
maintain complete documentation ofall costs incurred for review and audit by the City or its
‘esignated audit represemtatives). Consultant mast alo include in ts invoice a portion of the
Fined Fee as stipulated above. Consultant mast submit each invoice in the format directed by the
‘Cty and provide with ta progress report in format acceptable tote City. The progress report
‘must identify any variances from budget or schedule and explain the reasons forthe variances.

22. Payment, Payment willbe processed within 60 days after the City’s approval ofan acceptable

3. Invoice Disputes. Ifcenain items contained in Consultant's invoices are disputed bythe Cty. the
‘mount notin question rust be paid in full. The amount in question must be resolved in
ccordance with the Disputes provision of his Agreement.

ATTACHMENT A
MAXIMUM HOURLY LABOR RATES
‘CONSULTANT
BETTIS)

TOE

wonsertss

TESST

apa TOT ONG

aT OoeET

Tae

oI

EEE

TDS TORIS|

BOE aveTEIZves| SL
Te veeE Ly Leal LSS ET Wes — ov LOrSTT ows] — TORTS
ERO ST es STORET Teel Tw TTT
[peso lore.
ua Tae ey| rae aE Ry
1

[SaBUEY iy Tao} PSPED PEAS CVOISSAIO]

‘rie sad]

TawabeveR voRanis709]

es we]

—

EXHIBIT2

ATTACHMENT B
CITY OF CHICAGO
‘TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT GUIDELINES
ATTACHMENT B

CITY OF CHICAGO.
‘TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT GUIDELINES

‘Alltansporation costs must be accounted for with separate categories for each type of ansporation sitine, rll, bus cab
fares or eer loc tansporation, and private automobiles.) The use of a private automobile in lieu of pblic transportation
vill be reimbursed st 485 cents per mile, but a no event will the reimbursement exceed the cost of coach ar fare. The
aximum daily rate designated for hte rate for meals ae also ingroup categories. Any tips or gratuity isto be included.

Original temized receipts for all cous must be attached to the approved travel request and submited withthe monthly
invoice

‘Reimbursement rates are categorized by relative travel costs associated with certain cities. Group Ml and Tiss are not all
elusive: Forcities not listed please consult withthe Office of Budget & Management for appropriate reimbursement aes

(Per diem based upon [STANDALONE [Grouricr@s [crovrmcrms | crour w crus

Federal Government | nev Yencor aery ‘ows MO as MO
Rates; all rates willbe | Neveu Cy bon -| Seem on Noscawh
‘updated anseally). oeeewee is Angle CA ‘Colum, ‘toa MO
Ererty oan Spann
Empracuceca | Dee CO
‘Wengen bo Borcct
Wrahogen de ome TX
= Sean
tavega.ne
Amant Meng
ooo Maser
ont wt
Sect
wore A
Semen
oon
Pram PA
Fem o8
sire
pots
$45.00 $45.00 $35.00 $25.00
couch oe cach fe conch re coh tet
conor ae ‘ova fe ‘onomy ise ovom fe
‘Soeomy fe ‘Senor fae ‘Soren ft ‘Senomy are
Seas ‘Sieestes Sovsiies Soeasmtes
322000 195.00 315000 10000
$1100 s1000 300) 80
51300 i200 St100 Stooo
su6c0 52000 sno _ | __ som

$5000 $12.00 338.00

‘Attachment ~ Consultant and Subconsultant Overhead Absorption Rates
Mlinois Department of Transportation

2300 South Dirksen Parkway /Sprngfed Winois/ 62764

June 7, 2007

Subject: PRELIVINARY ENGINEERING
‘Consultant Unit
Prequalification Fte

Me. Preston W. Keefe

Earth Tech, inc,

10'S. Riverside Plaza

Suite 1900

‘Chicago, IL 60608

Doar Me. Kea:

‘Your finns payrol burden and fringe expense rate and general and administrative
expense rate totaling 163.47% are approved on a provsonel basis and wal be
sed In evaluating your Statements) of interest in cur seloclon process The
‘actual reo used in agreement negolations may be determined by cur Bureau of
‘Accounting and Auditing in a pre-eward audit

‘Your firm s required to report to this offee any adeltons or deletions of your
lensed professional staff or any other key personnel that would eect your fms
‘brequalfcaton in a partcular category. This report must be submited within 15,
Calendar days ofthe change,

Your frm is prequalified untl September 30,2007. You wil be glen an additonal
‘shmonihs from his date to submt te Corporat end Financial Information
Porton ofthe “Statement of Experience and Financial Condition” (SEFC) io
omain prequailied

‘Very ry yours,

Ont iy

‘Chery Cathey PE,
Chief of Preliminary Engineering
‘SEFC PREQUALIFICATION
a EA TEEN So1c008: ERTTE__ ATE: uur

TANS SPECIFICATIONS&ESTIMATES. ——————
srecwars: Xs. wownie arose: x

2 fonos 200 STREETS: X12 gremonoer onoce: x
J AERPLONUNGESPECALSERNCE «X13 TEDARONBRIOGE: x
Sher oe X M4 eEoueaLconcreTe noxGiRoeR ROG. x
-AERCOWSTHUCTON NGPECTON: «X18 coNTCANT TRUSS UROGE. x
tay STRUCTURESMPLE: Xfm CussraveD GAcER BROGE: *
Mesa STRUCTUREYPICAL Xt amenawus: x
SinoemarSTRUCTUREOV TCA: |X LATIN x
{a RALROAD BROCE: x
22 LocaTIONoMNMCE: xm swerstuoKs: x
inure sno. XW respurrsnoes x
$x ten COOROMATIONA TING BEATS.

| ———————wWroravtie neronrs
28 WATERWAYS THC x 2 RawstaTION x
Be WATERWAYS COUPLER x

———————rocarion ano pesian stu
 REDONGTAIAI REN x

ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES & Ri

ron STUDIES
wuss Tens: X_34 RALWAY ENGNEERING

(recat services

ss noure sve: Xx sLUNDSCAPE ARCHETECTURE:

S.lvo sure. X Skiazanoous waste x

Br Abra wren ‘2 asnesTou AaaTEMeNT SURVEY:

52 GEorECHNCCAL ENGR TYPICAL ‘7 construcrion nsrecnion x

Se GEOTEONWEAL OR COMPLEC ‘a. euury assurance
‘omameovssexcesKs

nd enn i ig

EXHIBIT 3
MBE/WBE Special Conditions

2007 ay

Revise Jamar
© EarthTech
1 EyeO wnt mpeg
January 16, 2008

Ms. Elvia Femandez
Director of Contract Administration

Gity of Chicago

Department af Procurement Services
City Hall, Room 403,

121 North LaSalle Street

Chicago, ttinois 60602

RE: Professional Construction Management Services
Contract No. 16724
Requisition No.: 34410
Specification No.: 59098

Dear Ms, Femande
‘This leter is to express our firms commitment to achieving fall compliance with the
City's MBE/WBE goals of 16.9% and 4.5% on task orders that are assigned to us under
the above referenced contrat

Should you have any questions in this regard please contact Mike McCue at (312) 777-
5568. Thank you for this opportunity.

Sincepely, yh
Metiiyn & Harte
Vice President, Facility Operations

SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MINORITY BUSINESS ENTERPRISE COMMITMENT
AND WOMEN BUSINESS ENTERPRISE COMMITMENT

Task Order Contracts
(MBE/WBE Professional Services)

1. Policy and Terms

A. It is'the policy of the City of Chicago that businesses certified as Minorty Business Enterprises (MBE) and
Women Business Enterprises (WBE) in accordance with Section 2-92-420 et sea, of the Municipal Code of
‘Chicago and Regulations Governing Certification of Minority and Women-owned Businesses, and all other
Regulations promulgated under the aforementioned sections ofthe Municipal Code shall have the maximum
‘opportunity to participate fully in the performance of this agreement. Therefore, the Contractor shall not
discriminate against any person or business on the basis of race, color, national origin or sex, and shall take
alemative action to ensure that women and minority businesses shall have the maximum opportunity to
compete for and perform subcontract for supplies or services.

The Chief Procurement Officer has established a goal of awarding not less than 25% of the annual

dollar valve of all non-construction contracts to certified MBEs and 5% of the annual dollar value of all
‘non-construction contracts to certified WBES.

A. Failure to carry out the commitments and policies set fonh herein shall constitute a material breach of the
‘contract and may result in the termination of the contract or such remedy as the City of Chicago deems
appropriate

‘Accordingly, the Contractor commis to expend at least the following percentages of the total contract price
(inclusive of any and all modifications and amendments if awarded, for contrat participation by MBES and
WES:

MBE Contract Goal: 16.9%
WBE Contract Goal: 4.5%

2. The commitment is met by the Contractor's status as an MBE or WBE, or by joint venturing. with one or
more certified MBEs or WBEs, or by subcontracting a portion ofthe work to one ot more MBEs or W8Es on
‘cach tatk order, or by the purchase of materials used in the performance of the contract from one of more
-MBEs or WBEs, or by the indirect participation of MBEs or WBEs in other aspects ofthe Contractors business
(but 10 dollar of such indirect MBE or WBE participation shall be credited more than once against a
Contractors MBE or WBE commitment with respect to all contracts of such Contractor), or by any

‘combination of the foregoing.

Note: MBEWSE participation goals are separate and those businesses certified with the City of
Chicago as both an MBE and WBE shall not be credited more than once against a Contractor's MBE or
WBE commitment in the performance of the contract.

As noted above, the Contractor may meet all oF par of this commitment by contracting with MBEs or WBES
joe the prowsion of goods or services not directly celated to the performance of this coatract. However, in
UUctermining the manner of MBEAVBE participation, the Contractor shall fist consider snvohement of
MBESWBE as joint venture partners, SubContractorsh'Subconsultants) and suppliers of goods and services
rectly related to the periormance vi this contact. In appropriate cases, the Chief Procurement Officer will
requite the Contractor to demonstrate the specific effors undertaken to invohe MBEs and \WBEs in direct
participation ia the performance ofthis contrac.

‘The Contractor ako may with prior approval ofthe Chief Procurement Officer or designee, meet all, or part,
of this commitment through cred received pursuant to Section 2-92-530 of the Municipal Code of Chicago
forthe voluntary use of MBEs or WBES in private sector projects.

Definitions

“Minority Business Enterprise” or “MBE” means a firm awarded certification as a minority owned and
controlled business in accordance with City Ordinances and Regulations.

“Women Business Enterprise” or “WBE” means a firm awarded cerfcation as women owned and
controlled business in accordance with City Ordinances and Regulations.

“Directory” means the Directory of Ceniied “Disadvantaged Busines Enterprises,” “Minority Business
Esterpites” and “Women Busines Enterpises” maintained and publshed by the Contract Compliance
‘Adminstrator. The Directory identifies firms that have been certified as MBEs and WBEs, and includes both
the date of thelr ast certification and the are of specialty n which they have been certifed. Contractor are
texporsible for veying the cuter certification stats ofall proposed MBE and WBE fr.

“Area of Specialty” means the description of an MBE or WBE firm's business which has been determined by
the Chief Procurement Officer to be most reflective ofthe MBE or WBE frm’s claimed specialty or expertise.
Each MBE/WEE letter of certification contains a description of the firm's Area of Specialty. Ths information
{a also contained in the Directory. Credit toward this contract's MBE and WE participation goals shall be
limited to the participation of firms performing within their Area of Speciaty.

NOTICE: The Department of Procurement Services does not make any representation concerning the
ablity of any MBE/WBE to perform work within their Area of Specialty. It isthe responsibility
ofall Contractors to determine the capability and capacity of MBEVWBEs to satisfactorily
perform the work proposed.

“Joint Venture” means an association of two of more businesses to carry out a single business enterprise for
profit, and for which purpose they combine theit expertise, propery, capital, efforts, sil and
Contractors may develop joint venture ageements as an instrument to provide participation by certified
IMBES and WES in the contract's work or services

“Contract Compliance Administrator” means the officer appointed pursuant to Section 2-92-490 of the

‘Municipal Code of Chicago.

“Respondent” means any individual or firm responding to a Request for Information (RFD, Request for
Proposal (RFP), and Request for Qualification (RFQ).

“Task Order Request” is a solicitation document issued by a user department for a specific task oF tasks
ppenaining the scope of services required by the user department during the term or the agreement. The
Consultants will respond to the department’ request by submiting a complete Task Order proposal for the
department's ceview and approval

‘Task Order Proposer” means an approved pre-qualified consultant who has been avatled a consulting,
igreement in sponse 1o a Request for Proposal RFP:Request for Qualifications RFQ) ad who & responding,
tothe Task Order Request

m.

“Task Order Proposal” means a complete package that consists of scope of services, alist of deliverables,
staffing schedule, completing schedule, proposed sub-consutants including MBE/WBE sub-consultants and a
detailed budget outlining billing rates and estimated number of hours ofeach discipline.

Joint Ventures

Respondents may develop joint venture agreements as an instrument to provide paticipation by certified
MBEs and WBEs in contract work. A Joint Venture seeking to be credited for MBE and/or WBE participation.
‘may be formed among MBE andior WBE firms or between an MBE and/or WBE firm and a non-MBEAVBE
firm.

‘A joint venture is eligible for MBE or WBE credit if the MBEAVBE joint venture partners) share in the
‘ownership, control and management responsibilities, risks and profits of the joint venture, and are
responsible for a clearly defined portion of work to be performed, in proportion with the MBE and/or WBE
‘ownership percentage.

Notice: The Ciy requires that, whenever a joint venture is proposed asthe prime Contractor, each joint
‘venture partner must Separately sgn the proposal tothe Cy, in the pages captioned TO BE EXECUTED BY A
CORPORATION; TO BE EXECUTED BY A PARTNERSHIP; and/or TO BE EXECUTED BY A SOLE
PROPRIETOR, as applicable.

Counting MBt m f

‘The inclusion of any MBE or WBE in the Contractor's MBE/WBE Utilization Plan shall not conclusively
establish the Contractors right to full MBE/WBE credit for that firm's participation in the contract. Once an
MBE or WBE is determined to be eligible in accordance with these rues, the total dolar value of the work
awarded to the MBE or WBE may be counted toward the MBE or WBE goal except as indicated below:

The Chief Procurement Officer reserves the right to deny or limit MBEAWBE credit to the Contractor where
any MBE or WE is found to be engaged in substantial subcontracting or pass-through activities with others.
A’ Contractor may count toward its MBE and WBE goals only expenditures to fms that perform a
‘commercially useful function. frm is considered to perform a commercially usefl function whem His
responsible forthe performance of a clearly defined and distinct element of work and i carrying Out Its
responsibilities by actually performing, managing, and supervising the work involved. To determine whether
2 firm is performing a commercially useful function, the Chief Procurement Officer shall evaluate the amount
‘of work subcontracted, industry practices, and othe relevant facton. The amount of MBE/AWBE panicipation
Credt shall be based upon an analysis by the Chief Procurement Officer of the specific duties that will be
performed by the MBE or WBE. Each MBEAWBE shall be expected to actualy perform a substantial (Le.
more than eighty-five percent (85%)) of the work contemplated for it by any subcontract or agreement
through the use ofits own employees and equipment.

Requested information may include, without limitation: (1) specific information concerning brokers’
fees and/or commissions; (2) intended sub-suppliers 0 other sources of goods andior services, and
13) specie financial or other tisk to be assumed by the SIBEWBE.

BES and WBEs who have been certified as “brokers” shall no longer be considered eligible to participate for
say consideration of MBE oF WBE credit on contacts awarded by the City in 1993 and thereafter, until
further notice

\ Joint Venture may count toward is MBE or WBE goal the dollar value of the actuil work performed by the

“ au

MBE and/or WBE joint venture partner with its own resources.

The Chief Procurement Officer reserves the right to disallow MBE and/or WBE goal credit forall or any
portion of work performed by an MBE or a WEE joint venturer based on evaluations of non-compliance
with these Special Conditions or any other City Slate and/or Federal regulation.

Regulations i iver of. E

The following Regulations set forth the standards to be used in determining whether oF not a reduction or
waiver of the MBE/WBE commitment goals identified on a Task Order Requests appropriate.

1, Ifa Task Order Proposer determines that it unable to meet the MBE and/or WBE goal
percentage identified on the Task Order Request, a written request forthe MBE and/or WBE
percentage reduction or a full waiver of the MBEWBE goal must be inclided in the Task
Order Proposal

2, The Task Order Proposer's written request for reduction oF waiver from the commitment
must be in the form of a signed petition for grant of relief from the MBE/WBE percentages
submitted on the Task Order Proposer leterhead, and must demonstrate that all required
efforts as set forth in this document were taken to secure the services of cerified Minority
and Women Busines Enterprises to meet the commitments. The Chief Procurement Officer
‘or her designee shall determine whether the request for the reduction or waiver will be
panied.

3. Task Order Proposer will be considered responsive to the terms and conditions of these
Regulations if a written request and all supporting documentation that adequately.
addresses the conditions for a reduction or waiver of MBEWBE goals is submitted with
each Task Order Proposal. Failure to submit documentation sufficient to suppor the waiver
request will cause the Task Order Proposal to be found non-responsive by the Chief
Procurement Officer, and the Task Order Proposal will be rejected. In such cases the
‘remedies to be taken by the Chief Procurement Officer, in her sole discretion, may include,
but are not limited to, negotiating with the next Task Order Proposer or re-sliciting the Task
Order Request. ll Task Order Proposers are required to submit all required documents with
teach Task Order Proposal in order to expedite the approval process and lave a notice to
proceed.

A. Conditions for a Reduction or Waiver of MBE/WBE goals.
Each of the following elements must be present in the Task Order Proposer’s written request for

reduction of waiver of MBE and or WBE goal inorder for the Chief Procurement Oificer to review
land determine whether or nat such a reduction or waiver is appropriate,

1, __ The Task Order Proposer has documented the unsuccessful solicitation of cerified MBEWVBE
subContractors/subconsultants) of atleast SO% ‘or atleast five when there are more than eleven
Certlied firms in the commodity atea) of the appropriate certified MBE/WBE firms to perform any
direct services identilied or related to in the Task Order Request. Direct participation involves
8 portion of the services specitically required in the Task Orcer Request
ion must include but is not necessarily limited to:

4A detailed statement of efors to identify and select portions uf services identitied in
the Task Order Propesal for subcontracting 10 cenilied MBEWEE firms;

an

‘b. _Alistng of all MBE/WBE firms contacted by the Task Order Proposer that includes:

(1) Names, address and telephone numbers of MBEWBE firms solicited;

(2) Date and time of contact;

(3) Method of contact (written or facsimile). A copy of the certified writen
correspondence and/or a confirmed facsimile transmittal receipt must be
attached.

Copies of centified letters or any other evidence of mailing that substantiates outreach
to MBEAWBE vendors that must include:

(1) Project identification and location;
2) Classification’commodiy of services oF work ters for which quotations were

cB ede te ene
proposals;

A a
Sonttin treater ara Tied SS
ama pl he tr en erent eg
narrate a Tat rar do
ceignetaan ore nae Eo manta
SER Gety Oy acc Gat aa
Seas artemis

oR

2. SubContractowSubconsutant participation will be deemed excessively costly when the
MBE/WBE subContractorsubconsutant proposal exceeds the average price quoted by more than
twenty percent (20%) In order to establish that a subcontracts” quote is excesively costly, the Task
‘Order Proposer must provide the following information:

4. A detailed statement of the scope of services or work identified for MBE/WBE
participation for which the Task Order Proposer assens the MBEWBE quote(s) were
‘excessively costly (in excess of 20% or higher).

(1) A isting of all potential subContractors\subconsultantis) contacted for a.
{quotation on that scope of services or work item;

(2) Prices quoted for the subcontract in question by all such potential
subContractors/subconsultantis) for that scope of services of work item.

b, Other documentation which demonstrates 10 the satisfaction of the Chief
Procurement Oficer that the MBEWBE proposals are excessively costly, even though not in
‘excess of 20% higher than the average price queted. This determination will be based on
{actor that include, but are not limited tothe (allowing:

(1) The City’'sestimate for the work under a speci subcontract;
(2) The Task Order Proposer's own estimate for the work under the subcontract:
(3) Am average of the bona fide prices quoted for the subcontract:
(Demonstrated increase in other contract costs 3s 4 resul of subcontracting to

sat

the MIWBE or other fim,
‘Assist Agency Participation

Every MBE and or WBE waiver andlor reduction request must include evidence thatthe Task Order
Proposer has provided timely notice of the need for subContractorsVsubconsultants) to. an
appropiate asociaton/assst agency representative ofthe MBEMWBE business community shown In
‘xtachment A.

The notice requirement ofthis Section willbe satisfied if a Task Order Proposer contacts atleast one
(of the associations shown on Attachment A. When-a Task Order Proposer seeks @ waiver or
reduction in the utilization of MBE/WBE goals, Attachment B provides the letter format a Task Order
Proposer may use. If deemed appropriate, the Chief Procurement Officer or Contract Compliance
(Officer may contact the asst agency for verification of notification,

Impracticability

1, If the Chief Procurement Officer determines that a lesser MBE and/or WBE percentage
standard is appropriate with respect to a particular Task Order Request prior to the solicitation, the
Task Order Request shall include a statement of such revised standard

2, The MBENWBE goal requirements set forth in these Regulations shall not apply where the
Chief Procurement Officer determines prior tothe issuance of a Task Order Request solicitation that
[MBE/WBE subContractor/subconsultant participation is impracticable.

‘This may occur whenever the Chief Procurement Officer determines that for reasons of time, need, industry
practices or standards not previously known to the Procurement Department administrator, or such other
Extreme circumstances as may be deemed appropriate, such a Waiver isin the best interests ofthe City. This
determination may be made by the Chief Procurement Officer prior to solicitation In connection with a

particular Task Order Request.

Vi. Procedure to Determine MBEWBE Compliance

A

Schedule B:_MBE/WBE Affidavit of foint Venture

‘Where the Proposer includes the participation of any MBE or WBE as a joint venture partner, the
Proposer must Submit with is proposal a the Request for Qualification ("RFQ stage, a'Schedule 8
and the proposed joint venture agreement. These documents must clearly evidence that the MBE or
WBE joint venture partner will be responsible for a clearly defined portion of the work to be
performed, and thatthe MBE’s or WBE's responsibilities and risks are proportionate to its ownership
percentage. The proposed joint venture agreement must include specific details related to:

1, The parties’ contributions of capital, personnel and equipment and share of the costs of
insurance and bonding if required)

2. Work tems to he performed by the MBE’s or WBE's own forces/equipment if ncededl:

3. Work items to be performed under the supervision of the MIBE or WBE venture partner; and
The MBE’s or WBE’s commitment of management, supervisory and operative personnel
dicated to the periormance of the Task Order Services.

etter of intent to Perform e sultant

vu.

The Task Order Proposer must submit with ts’ Task Order Proposal an executed original Schedule C-
3 for each MBE and WEE included on the Schedule O-3 in response to each Task Order Request.
Each Schedule C3 must accurately dell he scope of services to be performed by the MBE or WBE
and the agreed rats and pices tobe paid.

C. Schedule D-3: Compliance Plan Regarding MBE and WBE Utilization

The Task Order Proposer must submit with i’ Task Order Poposl a completed Schedule 0-3 ip
‘An approved Compliance Plan isa condition precedent to
‘commencement of an approval of each Task Order.

[Except in cases where the Task Order Proposer has submitted a request for a complete waiver of or variance:
from the MBE/WBE commitment in accordance with Section V. above, the Compliance Plan must commit to
the uilzation of each listed MBE and WBE. The Task Order Proposer i responsible for calculating the dollar
{equivalent ofthe MBE and WBE Task Order goals identified in each Task Order Request, as percentages of
the total proposed dollar value of the Task Order Proposal. All Compliance Plan commitments must conform
to the Schedule C-35.

©. Letters of Certification,

‘A copy of each proposed MBE’s and WBE's curent Letter of Certification from the City of Chicago
‘must be submitted with each Task Order Proposal in response toa Task Order Request.

‘A Letter of Certification includes a statement of the MBE's or WBE's area(s) of specialty. The MBE's
‘or WBE’ scope of services as detailed in the Schedule C-3 must conform to is area(s) of specialty,
‘Where an MBE or WBE is proposed to perform services not covered by its Leter of Certification, the
[MBE or WBE must request the addition of a new area atleast 10 calendar days. prior to the Teck
‘Order Proposal submital date.

i i Term of the G
‘A. after each Task Order has been completed, the Task Order Proposer must submit a
-MBE/WBE Uilization Report for that specific Task Order project.

B.  “MBEAVBE Uilzation Reports” are to be submitted directly to: Department of Procurement
Services, Contract Monitoring and Compliance Unit, City Hall, Room 403, 121 N. LaSalle Street,
Chicago, linois 60602.

C__The Contract Compliance Administrator shall be entitled to examine, on five (5) business days prior
notice, the Contractor's books and records including without limitation payroll records, tax returns
and records, and books of account, to determine whether the Contractor is in compliance with its
‘commitment to MBE/WBE participation and the satus of any MBE or WBE performing any portion of
the contract. Such rights are in addition to any other audit inspection rights contained ia the contract,

VIM, SMBEAWBE Substitutions

‘Changes by the Task Order Proposer of the commitments eater certified in the Schedule D-3 ave
prohibited. In some cases, however, it may become necessary to substitute a new MBE or WBE in order to
‘tually fulfill he MBE/WVBE requirements.

The Task Order Proposer must notify the Chief Procurement Cicer immeditely ia svrting ofthe necessity
aw

to reduce or terminate an MBEWBE subcontract and to utilize a substitute firm for some phase of services.
‘The Task Order Proposer’s notification should include the reason forthe substitution request, as well as, the
name, address and principal official ofthe substitute MBEWBE and the dollar value and scope of work of
the subcontract. Attached should be all the requiste MBE/WBE affidavits and documents, as enumerated

above in Section VI above, “Procedure i Determine 8d Compliance”

‘The City will not approve extra payment for escalated costs incurred by the Task Order Proposer when a.
substitution of Subcontractors/Subconsultantis) becomes necessary forthe Task Order Proposer in order to
‘comply with MBE/WEBE contract requirements,

“Aker a Notice to Proceed has been issued, no relief of the MBE/WBE requirements wil be granted by the
ity except in exceptional circumstances. Requests for complete or partial waiver of the MBEMWBE
requirements identified in each Task Order Request must be made in writing, stating all details of the
‘request, the circumstances, and any additional relevant information. The request must be accompanied by a
‘record of al efforts taken by the Contractor to locate specific firms, solicit MBE/WBE bids, seek asistance
from technical assistance agencies, et., as outined above in the section V. above, entitled “Regulations

‘Governing Reductions To of Waiver of MBE/WBE Goals
‘Non-Compliance and Damages

The following constittes a material breach of this Contract and shall entitle the City to declare a default,
terminate the contract and exercise those remedies provided for inthe contract, at lw or in equity:

(1) Failure to satisfy the MBE/WBE percentages requited by the Contract; and

(2) The Contractor, Subcontractor or Subconsuitant is disqualified as an MBE or WBE, when such
status was a factor in Contract award, and was misrepresented by the Task Order Proposer.

Im the event thatthe Task Order Proposer is determined not to have been involved in any misrepresentation
‘of the satus ofthe diqualifed Subortractor/Subconsutant, the Task Order Proposer shall seek to discharge
the disqualified Subcontractor/Subconsuikant, upon proper notification to the Chief Procurement Officer
and/or Contract Compliance Administrator and make every effort to identify and engage a qualified MBE or
WBE as its replacement. Furthermore, continued eligibility to enter into future contracting arrangements
with the City may be jeopardized asa result of nor-comphance. Payments due to the Contractor may be
‘withheld until comective action is taken by the Contractor/Conauitant and approved by the Chief
Procurement Officer.

Arbitration

Inthe event that a Contractor has not complied withthe committed MBEWBE percentages, underutilization
‘of MBEYW8Es shal entitle the affected MBEWBE to recover from the Contractor damages sufered by such
-MBE/WB Eenuy 36a result of being underutilized; provided, however, that this provision shall not apply to
the extent such underutlization occurs pursuant 10 a waiver oF substitution approved by the City The:
(Ordinance and conuracts subject thereto provide that any disputes between the Contractor and such silected
MBES\WBEs regarding damages shall be resolved by hinding arbitration before an independent wsbitrator
‘other than the City, with eeatonable expenses, including attorney's fees, being recoverable by a peevaiing
MBEWVBE in accordance with these regulations. This provision is intended for the beneiit of any MBEWBE
alfected by underutlization and grants such MBEWBE entity specitic thd party beneficiary Fights, Any
rights coolerred by this regulation are nonavaisable and take precedence over any agreement t0 the
contrary incading but not limited to those contained in a subcontract, suborder, or communicated oly
hetween 3 Contractor and an MBEAVBE.

x.

xn

an.

‘An MBEAWBE desiring to arbitrate shall contact the Contractor in witing to initiate the aritrative process.
Except as otherwise agreed to in writing by the afected partes subject tothe limitation contained in the last
sentence ofthe previous paragraph, Section X.A. above, within ten (10) days ofthe Contractor receiving
‘notification ofthe intent to arbitrate from the MBEAWBE the above-described disputes shall be arbtvated in
accordance with the Commercial Abivation Rules ofthe American Acbitation Atocation ("AAA"), a not
for-profit agency, with an ofice at 225 North Michigan Avenue, Suite 2527, Chicago, linois 60601-7601
[Phone: (312) 616-6560; Fax: (312) 819-0404). All such arbitrations shall be initiated by the MBEWBE
linga demand for abivation withthe AAA; shal be conducted by the AAA; and held in Chicago, ins

All fees ofthe arbitrator are the inital responsibilty of the MBEWBE; provided, however, that the arbitrator
is authorized to award reasonable expenses, including attorney's and arbitrator fees, as damages to a
prevailing MBE/WBE.

‘The MBEAWBE mus send the City a copy of the “Demand for Arbitration” within ten (10) days after its fled
with the AAA. The MBEMBE also must send the City a copy ofthe decision ofthe arbitrator within ten (10)
days of receiving such decision. Judgment upon the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in
any court of competent jurisdiction.

‘Penalty or Failure to Meet MBE/WBE Commitments
In accordance with Anice 1V Section 292-445 of the Municipal Code of Chicago, inthe event a Contractor
fails to meet its overall MBEAWBE commitment on a specific contrac, a penalty may be assessed,

Record Keeping

‘The Contractor shall maintain records ofall relevant data with respect 10 the utilization of MBEWWBEs,
retaining these records for a period of at least three years aftr final accepxance of the work. Full access to
these records shall be granted to the Cy of Chicago, Federal or State authorities in ths project, the U.S.
Department of Justice, or any duly authorized representatives thereof.

Information Sources:
atten pred enn tnd prt 1 een
ttn sone a fetes Pop

Ghicagg, linn. Geet
Genel information
(Ha Ssr4526

Spout eT
Semign Stones Cardenas GSSs4500

City of Chicago

tu 22208 on
of owen
ea
Set ln

aes

General information, Department of Procurement Services: www.cityofchicago.ory/procurement

Information on MBE/WBE svailblty in the manuiacur oF supplies a fel
{Sine om 4 oa sia ata gia O SRDS and rele lds rect

ioe he nny
New vor Sew Yoru eve 2 82°F Sate 12007"

Chicago no's g0601

ah Executive Decor
i1955-saa5 “uve O*
Gna yee a000

7 10,41

