Contract Summary Sheet

Contract (PO) Number: 14569
Specification Number: 42504
‘Name of Contractor: RSM MCGLADREY INC

City Department: DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE

le of Contract: FINANCIAL SERVICES: MANAGEMENT CONSULTING, ACTUARIAL,
TAX SUPPORT AND BENEFITS CONSULTING SERVICES

tart Date: 1/1/2007
End Date: 12/31/2013

Term of Contract:

Dollar Amount of Contract (or maximum com
$827,000,000.00

nsation if a Term Agreement) (DUR):

Brief Description of Work: FINANCIAL SERVICES: MANAGEMENT CONSULTING,
ACTUARIAL, TAX SUPPORT AND BENEFITS CONSULTING
‘SERVICES

Procurement Services Contract Area: PRO SERV CONSULTING $250,000erABOVE
Please refer tothe DPS website for Contact information under "Doing Business With The City”

Vendor Number

0624021
Sabmison Dati 5 ong7
‘Specification Number: 42504
Contract (PO) Number: 14569
‘Vendor Code Number: 50624021A.

MASTER CONSULTING AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
THE CITY OF CHICAGO
DEPARTMENT OF LAW
AND
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
AND

RSM MCGLADREY, INC.

FINANCIAL SERVICES

MANAGEMENT CONSULTING, ACTUARIAL, TAX SUPPORT AND
BENEFITS CONSULTING SERVICES

RICHARD M. DALEY
MAYOR
ARTICLE 1. INCORPORATION OF BACKGROUND INFORMATION
ARTICLE 2. DEFINITIONS...

2.01 Incorporation of Exhibits
ARTICLE 3. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF CONSULTANT

‘301° Scope of Services

302. Standard of Performance.

3.03 Personnel

3.04 Minority and Women Business Enterprises

3.05 Ownership of Documents

3.06 Copyright Ownership

3.07 Records and Audits.

3.08 Subcontracts and Assignments

3.09 Confidentiality

3.10 City’s Policies and Procedures.
ARTICLE 4. DURATION OF AGREEMENT.

401. Term of Performance so.

402 Timeliness of Performance

4.03 Agreement Extension Option
ARTICLE S. COMPENSATION

‘Basis of Payment

Budget for Services.
Method of Payment.
Funding
Non-Appropriation
Subcontractor Payments
COMPLIANCE WITH ALL LAWS
‘Compliance with All Laws Generally
Nondiserimination.
Inspector General.
MacBride Ordinance
Business Relationships with Elected Officials.
‘Chicago “Living Wage” Ordinance
Environmental Warranties and Representations.
Prohibition on Certain Contributions.
Firms Owned or Opernted by Ineo
Deemed Inclusion

False Statements,
ARTICLE 7.

701
702
7.03 Joint and Several Liability
7.04 Business Documents..
7.08 Conflicts of Interest
7.06 Non-liabilty of Public Officials
707 EDS / Certification Regarding Suspension and Debarment
ARTICLE 8. RISK MANAGEMENT

01
802
ARTICLE

). DISPUTES,
ANTICLE 1 EVENTS OF DEFAULT, REMEDIES, TERMINATION, SUSPENSION AND

Consultant's Insurance,
Indemnification...

RIGHT TO OFFSET,

1001
10.02

a4
ARTICLE 12.
ARTICLE 13,
13.01
13.02

EXHIBIT 1
EXHIBIT 2
EXHIBIT 3
EXHIBIT 4

EXHIBITS
EXHIBIT 6

J. GENERAL CONDITIONS.

Events of Default.
Remedies '
Early Termination

Ri

it to Ofset|
tire Agreement, a
Connterpare.

Interpretation
Contract Documents

Assigns

Cooperation

Waiver...
ndependent Contractor

Electronic Ordering and Invoicing.
Participation by Other Local Government Agencies
No Third Party Beneficiaries.

NOTICES.

AUTHORITY.

City Authority

Consultant's Authority

LIST OF EXHIBITS

SCOPE OF SERVICES AND COMPENSATION SCHEDULE.

TASK ORDERS.

INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS AND EVIDENCE OF INSURANCE.
‘TASK ORDER SPECIAL CONDITIONS REGARDING MINORITY
BUST
ENTERPRISE COMMITMENT

ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT & AFFIDAVIT
LIST OF KEY PERSONNEL.

30

mel

2

3

33

33
36
37
37
38
38

39

39
40
40

40

al

41
41
2
2
2
43
3

ESS ENTERPRISE COMMITMENT AND WOMEN'S BUSINESS
AGREEMENT

This Agreement is entered into as of ths Ist day of January, 2007, by and between
RSM McGladrey, Ine (“Consultant business corporation authorized to do business in
Delaware, andthe City of Chicago (“City”), a municipal corporation and home rule unit of local
{government existing under the Constitution ofthe State of Ilinos, acting through its Department
of Finance and Department of Law (“Department”), in Chicago, Iilinois.

BACKGROUND INFORMATION

The Clty requires financial services in the areas of- management consulting,
audi, auestation, actuarial, accounting, tax support, benefits cost benefit analysis and risk
‘management. The City advertised and issued a Request for Proposals (“RFP”) from consultants
‘qualified to perform the Services.

The City evaluated the Consultants response to the RFP and found the
Consultant 1 be capable of performing the Services inthe area(s) specified onthe cover page of
this Agreement. The Consultant represents and warrants that tis highly qualified and
‘competent perform the Services and has the necessary expertise and knowledge to complete
‘any Services assigned to it in accordance with this Agreement

‘The Cty may, but is not obligated 1, issue Task Order Requests within the scope
of this Agreement. Ifthe City does so, and the Consultant submits a Proposal that is accepted by
the City, the rendering of Services will be in accordance with this Agreement and the Task Order
lssued pursuant tothe Task Order Request and Proposal. The City is not obligated to issue any
Task Order Requests nor to isswe any Task Orders under this Agreement,

‘The Consultant warrants that itis ready, willing and able fo perform as ofthe
effective date of this Agreement tothe ful satisfaction ofthe City.

NOW, THEREFORE, the City and the Consultant agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1. INCORPORATION OF BACKGROUND INFORMATION

‘The Background Information set forth above is incorporated into and made a part
ofthis Agreement by reference.

ARTICLE 2. DEFINITIONS:

‘The following words and phrases have the following meanings for purposes of
this Agreement:

“Acceptance” shall mean the isuance ofa leter by City indicating its acceptance of a
Deliverable
“Account Manager” means the Key Employee ofthe Consultant who is assigned tothe
City upon execution ofthis Agreement and who i the primary contact forthe City for all
Reequests for Service

“Agreement” means this Master Consulting Agreement, including all exhibits attached
to it and incorporated init by reference, and all amendments, modifications or revisions made in
accordance with its terms,

“Budget” shall mean the accepted Cost Proposal forthe Services tobe provided by the
‘Consultant asset forth in a Proposal submited in response to a Task Order Request

“Corporation Counsel” means the Corporation Counsel ofthe City of Chicago, who is

the chief executive ofthe Department of Law, and any representative duly authorized to act on
her behalf.

“City Comptroller” means the Comptroller of the City of Chicago, who isthe chief
executive ofthe Department of Law, and any representative duly authorized to act on her behalf,

“Chief Procurement Officer” or “CPO” means the Chief Procurement Officer ofthe

City of Chicago, who isthe chief exceutive ofthe Department of Procurement Services and any
representative duly authorized to act on her behalf

“City” means the City of Chicago.

“City Data” shall mean all data submited to Consultant by City in connection with any
‘Task Order, including all data which includes images and electronic information related to Cty
employees, City customers, projects, property, payroll, human resources, budget, purchasing,
grants, projects and al nancial data

‘Confidential Information” of apart shall mean all confidential or proprietary
information and documentation of such party, including with respect tothe City, all City Data
and other information ofthe City that is not permitted to be disclosed to third parties under local
laws and regulations.

“Consents” shall mean all consents, approvals, authorizations, notices, requests, and
acknowledgments that are necessary to allow the (a) City to use the Deliverables, (b) Consultant
to perform the Services, and (c) Consultant to assign tothe Cty all rights and title in the
Deliverables.

“Consul

* means RSM McGladrey, Inc.

“Cost Proposal” means a cost proposal prepared by the Consultant in response to a Task
Onder Request. An accepted Cost Proposal will be the Budget forthe project.

“Deliverables” shall mean those tangibles to be provided by the Consultant as described in
Seation 3.01(C),
“Department” means the Department of Finance and Department of Law or any other
participating City Department.

“Documentation” shall mean all documentation, writen materials, work papers,
configurations, manuals, and other work product prepared by or on behalf ofthe Consultant, its
subcontractors or agens in connection with providing the Services.

“Pully-Loaded Hourly Rates” shall mean that hourly rate, by particular type of worker,
Which includes all expenses ofthe Consultant except forthe direct costs specifically st forth in 3
Task Order.

‘ey Personnel” shall mean those positions and job titles and the persons assigned to
those positions and job tts in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03(B) ofthis
‘Agreement

lotice-to-Proceed” means a writen acceptance of a Proposal by bath the Cty
‘Comptroller and Corporation Counsel and CPO and direction to commence Services under a
Task Order

“Project Documents” means this Agreement, the Request for Service, the Task Order
and any attachments to them,

“Project Manager” means the Consultant's staff member indicated on each Proposal as
the person who will direct and coordinate the execution ofthe Task Order and who will be the
primary contact with the Department.

“Proposal” means the detailed description ofthe Services to be provided by the
‘Consultan ina response to 2 Task Onder Request issued in accordance with Section 3.01(B).
Unless otherwise indicated, references o Proposal will be deemed to include the applicable Cost
Proposal

“RFP” shall mean that certain Request for Proposals for Financial Services forthe
Department of Finance and Department of Law dated June 6, 2006

“Risk Management Office” means the Risk Management Office in the Citys
Department of Finance which is under the direction of the Comptroller of the City and is charged
with reviewing and analyzing insurance and related lability matters for the City

“Services” means, collectively, the services, duties and responsibilities described in the
Project Documents and any and all work necessary to complete them or carry them out fully as
required.

subcontractor” means any person or entity with whom the Consultant contracts to
provide any part ofthe Services. The term Subcontractor also includes subcontractors of any
tier, subcontractors of any ter, suppliers and materialmen, whether or nt i privity with the
Consultant.
“Task Order” means an approved Proposal, as modified by negotiation between the
CCity and Consultant, signed by the CPO and issued pursuant to the Task Order procedures set
forth in Exhibit 2

‘Task Order Request” or “TOR™ means a writen request from the City Comptroller,
Corporation Counsel and the CPO for Consultants to prepare and submit a Proposal, including
Cost Proposal for Services relating toa specific projet, issued pursuant to the Task Order
procedures set forth in Exhibit 2.

“Warranty Period” means the one year period following Acceptance, unless otherwise
specified inthe Project Documents

“Work Product” shall include all finished and unfinished originals or copies (when
originals are unavailable) of documents, screens, reports, writings, procedural manuals, forms,
source and object code, work flow charts, methods, processes, data studies, plans, designs,
‘transformed data, briefs, drawings, maps, models, photographs, files, records, computer
printouts, estimates, memoranda, interfaces, computation, papers, supplies, notes, recordings,
Videotapes, pictorial reproductions, designs or other graphic representations, equipment
descriptions, and other materials prepared by the Consultant under this Agreement,

2.01 Incorporation of Exhibits
‘The following attached Exhibits are made a part of this Agreement:

Scope of Services and Compensation Schedule
Task Orders

Insurance Requirements and Evidence of Insurance

“Task Order Special Conditions Regarding Minority Business
Enterprise Commitment and Women's Business Enterprise
Commitment

Economic Disclosure Statement and Affidavit

List of Key Personnel

ARTICLE 3. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF CONSULTANT
3.01 Scope of Services
A. General

‘The type of Services which the Consultant may be requested to provide under this
Agreement are those described inthis Amticle 3 and Exhibit L, which is attached to this
‘Agreement and incorporated by reference as if fully set forth ee, and all tasks necessary to
‘complete such Services. The Consultant must provide Services in accordance with the standards
‘of performance set forth in Section 3.02

‘The Consultant is acting as an independent Consultant in performing under this
‘Agreement and nothing inthis Agreement i intended or should be construed as in any way
creating or establishing the relationship of partners or joint venturers between the City and the
Consultant, or as constituting the Consultant or any officer, owner, employee or agent ofthe
Consultant as an agent, representative or employee of the City for any purpose or in any manner
whatsoever.

B, Task Order Requests
1. Task Onder Requests,

(2) From time to tie the City Comptroller, Corporation Counsel and other
City departments may issue Task Order Requests which ae within the scope ofthis Agreement.
Task Order Requests, if any, will et forth the project for which Services are to be performed, the
required completion dat, and the basis of compensation. In the event that a project i funded in
whole or part with state or federal funds, the Task Order Request may also set forth additonal
‘conditions required by the particular source of funds and such additional conditions will become
Part of this Agreement with respect to tha specific project. By accepting a Proposal in response
to a particular Task Order Request, this Agreement will be deemed to have been amended to
include such special conditions pursuant 10 Section 11.03 but with respect to that project only.
The Consultant will not respond to Task Order Requests which are not within the scope ofthis
‘Agreement.

(b) The Task Order Requests “TOR” will ask the Consultant to provide
professional consulting services and advice to assist the City

(©) The Consultant acknowledges and agrees thatthe City is under no
obligation to issue any Task Order Requests to the Consultant; thatthe level of Services
requested may vary by project; and that the City has entered into similar agreements with other
Consultants and, in the CPO’s sole discretion, the City may issue # Task Order Request to only
‘one consultant or may issue the same Task Order Request to more than one consultant in order to
‘obtain competitive proposals.

2 Proposals,

(0) The Consultant will respond to a Task Order Request by submitting a Proposal to
the City Comptroller, Corporation Counselor other City departments which describes the
Consultant's approach and plan for performing those Services and contains a time schedule for
‘completion of Services, Deliverables to be provided and a schedule for delivery, a staffing
schedule, and a Cost Proposal, all of which conform tothe terms of the Task Order Request and
the terms and conditions ofthis Agreement. Proposals will constitute irrevocable offers fora
period of 60 calendar days after receipt by the City. Any and al costs associated with the
preparation of Proposals will not be a reimbursable cost under this Agreement.

(©) Proposals satisfactory tothe City Comptroller and Corporation Counsel must be
accepted on behalf ofthe City by the CPO before binding the City and Consultant. The City’s
acceptance will be demonstrated by a Notce-to-Proceed and 2 Task Order, issued pursuant to the
Task Order procedures set forth in Exhibit 2. The Consultant will not commence Services, and
the City will not be liable for any costs incarred by or payments to the Consultan, without a
Notice-to-Proceed so executed. All approved Proposals will be governed by the terms and
conditions ofthe Project Documents. The Project Documents will be interpreted in the
following order of precedence: the terms ofthis Agreement, Task Order Request, and Task Order
{approved Proposal. Any terms and conditions in a Task Order beyond Services descriptions,
warranty limits, schedule for delivery and cost or which otherwise conflict wit, are inconsistent
with, or address matters not addressed in this Agreement are void and of no effect on the City
(notwithstanding any other approval contemplated or provided for under this Agreement, unless
accepted in writing by the Mayer, Comptroller and CPO as an amendment to this Agreement.

(©) The Consultant acknowledges and agrees thatthe ity either may select from
among those Proposals submitted in response toa Task Order Request that Proposal which is in
the best interests ofthe City or may reject any and all Proposals submitted in response toa Task
Order Request. The Consultant further acknowledges and agrees that this Agreement and any
“Task Order may be subject to approval by other governmental agencies and that, if such approval
{is required, the Consultant will perform no Services relating o a Proposal until such approval is
obtained,

3. Deadlines for Submital of Proposals. Proposals will be submited to the City
‘Comptroller and Corporation Counsel no later than the date set fort inthe Task Order Request
and if no dat is specified then no later than 15 business days following Consultant's receipt of
the Task Order Request. Failure to provide a Proposal on a timely basis may result in rejection
of the Proposal

4 Negotiation Possible. The City reserves the right, at its option, either to accept a
opal as submited by the Constant, eee the Propsal orto negotiate amore stsatery
Proposal with one or more Consultants.

. Deliverables
1. City Approval Required. In carrying out Services, the Consultant must prepare or
provide Deliverables. Deliverables, include but are not limited to various written studies,
procedural manuals, forms, source and object code, work flow charts, methods, processes, plans,
designs, transformed data, data studies, interfaces, brief, drawings, maps, models, photographs,
files, records, computer printouts, estimates, memoranda, computation, papers, supplies, nots,
recordings, videotapes, pictorial reproductions, designs or other graphic representations,
‘equipment descriptions, and other materials prepared by the Consultant under this Agreement.
‘The City reserves the right to reject any and all Deliverables which inthe sole judgment ofthe
City do not adequately represent the intended level of completion or standard of performance, do
not include relevant information or data, do not comply with federal, state, or local reporting
requirements, o do not include all documents which are specified in this Agreement or the
applicable Proposal or which are reasonably necessary forthe purposes for which the City made
‘Agreement with Consultant or for which the City intends to use the Deliverables.

2. Pantial Deliverables. Partial or incomplete Deliverables may be accepted for
review only when required fora specific and well-defined purpose and when consented to in
advance by the City Comptroller and Corporation Counsel. Such Deliverables may not be
considered as satisfying the requirements ofthis Agreement, Partial or incomplete Deliverables
will in no way relieve Consultant of ts commitments hereunder.

D. Meetings

‘The Consultant will meet regularly with the City Comptroller and Corporation Counsel to
discuss matters relating to outstanding Projects. In addition, atthe City Comptroller and
‘Corporation Counsel's request, the Consultant must attend other meetings with the ity or other
interested parties designated by the City Comptroller and Corporation Counsel

3.02 Standard of Performance
A. General

1. Professional and Fiduciary. The Consultant will perform all Services required of
it under this Agreement with that degree of skill and care normally shown by a professional
performing Services of a comparable nature and scope. With respect tothe Consultant's duties to
the City, the Consultant will be deemed tobe acting in a fiduciary capacity forthe City and will
be held to a fiduciary standard in performing its Services. Nothing contained inthis Section,
however, shall be construed to relieve Consultant of its obligations pertaining toa Proposal and a
“Task Order asset frth in Sections 3.01(B\2) and 3.02(A)(2).

2. Satisfactory Performance. The Consultant will perform or cause to be performed
all Services required by the Agreement in accordance with the erms and conditions ofthis
‘Agreement, in accordance with any federal, state and local laws, statutes, ordinances, regulations
‘and standards applicable to this Agreement, and tothe satisfaction of the City Comptroller and
‘Corporation Counsel. The Consultant musta all times act inthe best interests of the City
‘consistent withthe professional and fiduciary obligations assumed by it in entering into this
‘Agreement and will assure timely and satisfactory rendering and completion of its Services,
including but not limited to Deliverables.

3. Qualified Personnel. The Consultant must assure that all Services which require
the exercise of professional skills or judgment must be accomplished by professionals qualified
and competent inthe applicable discipline and appropriately licensed, if required by law. The
Consultant covenants with the City to furnish its best professional expertise and judgment in
furthering the City’s interests.

4. Efficiency. The Consultant agrees to furnish efficient business administration and
supervision to render and complete the Services at reasonable cost, if fumished on atime and
material basis,
B. Cooperation

‘The Consultant will at all times cooperate fully wit the City, its agents, employees,
consultants, and subcontractors; any other partes providing services with respect to this
‘Agreement; and any interested goveramental agency. The Consultant will at all times actin the
City’s best interests. If this Agreement is terminated for any reason, or ift isto expire on its
‘own terms, the Consultant will make every effort to assure an orderly transition to another
provider ofthe Services, ifany; an orderly demobilization of ts own operations in connection
‘withthe Services; uninterrupted provision of Services during any transition period; and will
‘otherwise comply withthe reasonable requests and requirements ofthe City Comptroller and
‘Corporation Counsel in connection with the termination or expiration.

. Failure to Comply

Consultant fils to comply withthe above standards, Consultant will perform again, at
its own expense, any and all Services required to be performed again as diect ot indirect result
‘of such failure. The duty to perform again isin addition to and not a limitation on any other
remedies available to the City under this Agreement, at la, or in equity.

D. Related Services

‘The parties have attempted to delineate in this Agreement and its Exhibits, and will
attempt to delineate in each Task Order, the specific task, activities, and Services that will be
performed by Consultant, and the specific Deliverables that willbe provided by Consultant, in
the Project. Nevertheless, and notwithstanding anything tothe contrary herein, the parties
acknowledge and agree that no such delineation may possibly be entirely exhaustive or complete
and that ll such delineations will be interpreted a illustrations ofthe general types and natures
of Services and Deliverables that are to be provided by Consultant, rather than as complete and
exhaustive lists of such Services and Deliverables. Notwithstanding anything tothe contrary
elsewhere in this Agreement or in any Task Order, the parties agree thatthe Services to be
performed by Consultant with respect to any Project asa whole shall be deemed to include not
‘only such delineated tasks, activities, and Services, but also such other task, activities,
responsibilities, and services as are consistent with and reasonably related 1 those that are so
delineated and are otherwise necessary to provide City withthe requirements of this Agreement

3.03 Personnel
A. Adequate Staffing

The Consultant will, immediately upon receiving a fully executed copy of this
‘Agreement, assign uring the term ofthis Agreement and any extension of it an Account
“Manager who will be the Consultant's designated person to receive Task Order Requests and to
submit Proposals. If assigned a Project, the Consultant will, immediately upon receiving a fully
‘executed Task Orde, assign during the term of the Project an adequate staff of competent
personnel which is fully equipped, licensed as appropriate, available as needed, qualified and
assigned to perform the Services. ‘The Consultant will identify such personnel and their positions

ina staffing schedule which wll be included in each Proposal

B. Key Personnel

|. Minimum Reauirements, The Consultants Key Personnel under this Agreement
will consist of an Account Manager who willbe the contact person forthe City and such other
personnel as may be named for specific projects in the respective Proposal. Changes in the
ssignment of committed key personnel due to commitments not related to this Agreement are
‘prohibited without the City Comptroller and Corporation Counsel's approval. Key personne!
‘may also inclode other critical members ofthe project as specified inthe Proposal. Key
personnel, ifany, are identified in Exhibit 6

2. NoSubsttutions. The Consultant will not reassign or replace Key Personnel
without the written consent of the Cty Comptroller and Corporation Counsel which consent will
not be unreasonably withheld. The CPO may at any time in writing notify the Consultant that
the City will no longer accept performance of Services under this Agreement by one or more
Key Personnel. Upon such notice the Consultant will immediately cease to assign that person oF
those persons to perform the Services and will replace him o them with personnel qualified to
perform the function and acceptable tothe City Comptroller and Corporation Counsel

Ifany Key Personnel furnished by the Consultant to perform Services under this
‘Agreement are unable to continue in the performance of assigned duties for reasons beyond the
Consultant's control, the Consultant shall promptly notify the City, explaining the circumstances.
Within 10 days of notification by either party ofthe need to replace Key Personnel, the
Consultant must furnish tothe City the name ofthe substitute person and any other information
the City may require. Ifthe City does not approve such substitute person, the Consultant must
propose another substitute person within $ days. Such S-day cycle willbe repeated for a
‘easonable period until a proposed replacement has been approved by the City or the City has
declared an Event of Default

. Salaries and Wages

"The Consultant must pay, and cause each of ts Subcontractors to pay, salaries and wages:
{due to all employees ofthe Consultant and its Subcontractors, respectively, performing Services
‘under this Agreement unconditionally and at least once & month without deduction or ebate on
any account, except only for such payroll deductions as are mandatory by aw or are permitted
under applicable law and regulations. If, in the performance of this Agreement, the Consultant
‘or any Subcontractor underpays any such salaries or wages, the Comptroller may withhold, out
‘of payments due to the Consultant, an amount sufficient to pay to employees underpaid the
difference between the salaries or wages required to be paid under this Agreement othe
applicable subcontract andthe salaries or wages actually paid these employees for the tral
number of hours worked. The amounts withheld may be disbursed by the Comptroller for and
‘0n account ofthe Consultant to the respective employees to whom they are due. The parties
acknowledge that this section is solely for the benefit ofthe Cty and that it does not grant any
third party beneficiary rights
3.04 Minority and Women Business Enterprises

In the performance of this Agreement, including the procurement and lease of materials
cor equipment, Consultant must abide by the minority and women business enterprise
commitment requirements ofthe Municipal Code of Chicago, Section 292-420 et sea, Failure to
commit to these goals may result in early termination ofthe agreement. Consultant
acknowledges that the City reserves the right, based on Task Order Request solicitation
<escripton, to increase or decrease the M/WBE compliance participation based on the available
pool of City of Chicago cenified Minority and Women owned businesses. Consultant agrees to
abide by Task Order Request, details which will include the required M/WBE participation. The
special conditions governing minority and women’s business enterprises are attached hereto as
Exhibit and are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully et forth herein. The Consultant's
‘completed Schedules C-3 and D-3 evidencing its compliance must be submitted with each
Proposal and will become a part of the Project Documents upon acceptance by the CPO.

‘Any proposed M/WBE on Task Order Request must be certified by the City's
Department of Procurement Services atthe time ofthe Proposal submittal. The City reserves the
rights to require replacement of any proposed M/WBE that is not certified by the City of
Chicago.

Each Consultant willbe required to submit an MBE/WBE Utilization Report, as included
in Exhibit 4, and supporting dacumestation within ninety (90) days after award of Task Order
and quarerlythereafler tothe City of Chicago, Department of Procurement Services, Division of
Coniraet Monitoring and Compliance, Room 403, City Hall, 21 North LaSalle Street, Chicago,
IMlinois 60602. The MBE/WBE Utilization Reports must reflect actual amounts paid to each
MBE/WBE to date based on percentages of total contract vale,

3.05 Ownership of Documents

All Deliverables, data findings or information in any form prepared; assembled or encountered
by or provided to Consultant under this Agreement are property ofthe City including, as further
<escribed in Section 3.06 below, all copyrights inherent in them or their preparation. During
performance of its Services, Consultant is responsible for any loss or damage tothe Deliverables,
ata, findings or information while in Consultant's or any Subcontractor's possession. Any such
lost or damaged Deliverables, data, findings or information must be restored atthe expense of
Consultant. I not restorable, Consultant must bear the cost of replacement and of any loss
suffered by the City on account ofthe destruction, as provided in Section 8.02

3.06 Copyright Ownership

Consultant and the City intend that, tothe extent permitted by law, the Deliverables to be
produced by Consultant atthe City’ instance and expense under this Agreement are conclusively
‘deemed “works made for hire" within the meaning and purview of Section 101 of the United
States Copyright Act, 17 U'S.C.§101 e7 seq, and thatthe City will be the sole copyright owner
of the Deliverables and of al aspects, elements and components of them in which copyright can

subsist, and of all righs to apply for copyright registration or prosecute any claim of
infringement

‘To the extent that any Deliverable does not qualify as "work made for hire,” Consultant
hereby irevocably grants, conveys, bargains, sells, assigns, transfers and delivers tothe Cty, its
successors and assigns, allright, tite and interest in and tothe copyrights and all U.S. and
foreign copyright registrations, copyright applications and copyright renewals for them, and
other intangible, intellectual property embodied in or pertaining tothe Deliverables prepared for
the City under this Agreement, and all goodwill relating to them, free and clear of any liens,
claims or other encumbrances, to the fullest extent permitted by aw. Consultant wil, and will
cause all ofits Subcontractors, employees, agents and other persons within its contro to, execute
all documents and perform all acts thatthe Cty may reasonably request in order to assist the City
in perfecting its rights in and tothe copyrights relating tothe Deliverables, atthe sole expense of
the City. Consultant warrants to the City, ts successors and assigns, that onthe date of transfer
Consultant isthe lawful owner of good and marketable title in and tothe copyrights forthe
Deliverables and has the legal rights to fully assign them. Consultant further warrants that thas

not assigned and will not assign any copyrights and that it has not granted and will not gant any
licenses, exclusive or nonexclusive, to any other party, and that it is nota party to any other
‘agreement or subject to any other restrictions with respect tothe Deliverables, Consultant
warrant that the Deliverables are complete, entre and comprehensive, and thatthe Deliverables
constitute a work of original authorship

3.07 Records and Audits
A. Records

(Consultant must deliver or cause tobe delivered tothe City all documents,
Including all Deliverables prepared forthe City under the terms ofthis Agreement, promply in
accordance with the time limits prescribed inthis Agreement, and ifno time limit is specified,
then upon reasonable demand for them or upon termination or completion of the Services under
this Agreement. If Consultant fails to make such delivery upon demand, then Consultant must
pay tothe City any damages the City may sustain by reason of Consultant's failure.

Gi)__Consultant must maintain any such records including Deliverables not
delivered tothe City or demanded by the City fora period of $ years aftr the final payment
‘made in connection with this Agreement. Consultant must not dispose of such documents
following the expiration ofthis period without notification of and writen approval from the City
in accordance with Article 12,

B Audi

(Consultant and any of Consultant's Subcontractors must furnish the
Department with all information that may be requested pertaining to the performance and
‘cost ofthe Services. Consultant must maintain records showing actual time devoted and
‘costs incurred. Consultant must keep books, documents, papers, records and accounts in
connection wit the Services open to audit, inspection, copying, abstracting and
transcription and must make these records available to the City and any other interested
‘governmental agency, at reasonable times during the performance of ts Services

Gi) To the extent that Consultant conducts any business operations separate
‘and apart from the Services required under this Agreement using, for example, personnel,
‘equipment, supplies or facilities also used in connection with this Agreement, then
Consultant must maintain and make similarly available tothe City detailed records
‘supporting Consultan’ allocation to this Agreement ofthe costs and expenses
attributable to any such shared usages.

i)__Consultant must maintain its books, records, documents and other
‘evidence and adopt accounting procedures and practices sufficient to reflect property all
costs of whatever nature claimed to have been incurred and anticipated to be incurred for
cor in connestion with the performance ofthis Agreement. This system of accounting,
‘must be in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and practices,
consistently applied throughout.

iv) No provision in this Agreement granting the City aright of access to
records and document is intended to impair, limit or affect any right of acoess to such
records and documents which the City would have had inthe absence of such provisions

(9) The City may in its sole discretion audit the records of Consultant or its
Subcontractors, or both, at any time during the term of this Agreement or within five
‘years after the Agreement ends, in connection withthe goods, work, or Servies provided
lunder this Agreement. Each calendar year or partial calendar year is considered an
“audited period.” If, as a result of any such audit, itis determined that Consultant or any
ofits Subcontractors has overcharged the City in the audited period, the City will notify
Consultan. Consultant must then promptly reimburse the City for any amounts the City
thas paid Consultant due to the overcharges and also some or all ofthe cost ofthe aut, as
fallows:

(@) Ifthe audit has revealed overcharges to the City representing less than 5%
‘of the total value, based on the Agreement prices, ofthe goods, work, oF
Services provided inthe audited period, then the Consultant must
reimburse the City for $0% of the cost of the audit and 50% of the cost of
each subsequent auit that the Cty conducts;

(©) lf however, the audit has revealed overcharges tothe City representing
5% or more ofthe total value, based on the Agreement price, of the
‘goods, work, of Services provided in the audited period, then Consultant
"must reimburse the City forthe fll cost ofthe audit and of each
subsequent audit

Failure of Consultant to reimburse the City in accordance with subsection (a) or (b) above
an event of default under Section 10.01 of this Agreement, and Consultant will be

ble forall ofthe City’s costs of collection, including any court costs and attomeys”

fees,

2
3.08 Subcontracts and Assignments

A. Consultant must not assign, delegate or otherwise transfer all or any part ofits
rights or obligations under this Agreement: () unless otherwise provided for elsewhere in this
‘Agreement; or (i) without the express written consent ofthe CPO and the City Comptroller and
Corporation Counsel. The absence of such a provision or writen consent voids the attempted
assignment, delegation or transfer and is of no effect as to the Services or this Agreement. No
approvals given by the CPO, including approvals forthe use of any Subcontractors, operate to
relieve Consultant of any ofits obligations or liabilities under this Agreement.

B.__ All Subcontractors are subject to the prior approval ofthe CPO. Approval forthe
use of any Subcontractor in performance ofthe Services is conditioned upon performance by the
‘Subcontractor in accordance with the terms and conditions ofthis Agreement. Ifany
‘Subcontractor fails to perform the Services in accordance with the terms and conditions of this
‘Agreement to the satisfaction ofthe City Comptroller and Corporation Counsel, the ity has the
absolute right upon written notifeation to immediately rescind approval and to require the
performance ofthis Agreement by Consultant personally or through any other City-approved
Subcontractor. Any approval for the use of Subcontractors in the performance of the Services
under this Agreement under no circumstances operates to relieve Consultant of any of ts
‘obligations or liabilities under this Agreement.

€. Consultant, ypon entering into any agreement witha Subcontractor, must furnish
‘upon request of the CPO or the Department a copy ofits agreement, Consultant must ensure that
all subcontracts contain provision that require the Services be performed in strict accordance
withthe requirements ofthis Agreement, provide thatthe Subcontractor are subject to all the
terms ofthis Agreement and are subject tothe approval ofthe City Comptroller and Corporation
Counsel and the CPO. If the agreements do not prejudice any of the City’s rights under this
‘Agreement, such agreements may contain different provisions than are provided inthis
‘Agreement wit respect to extensions of schedule, time of completion, payments, guarantees and
matters not affecting the quality ofthe Services.

D. Consultant must not transfer or assign any funds or claims du or to become dve
under this Agreement without the prior written approval ofthe CPO. The attempted transfer or
assignment of any funds, either in whole or in pat, or any interest in them, which are due orto
bbecome due to Consultant under this Agreement, without such prior written approval, hs no
effect upon the City.

E. Under §2-92-245 of the Municipal Code, the CPO may make direct payments to
‘Subcontractors for Services performed under this Agreement. Any such payment has the same
effect as ifthe City had paid Consultant that amount directly. Such payment by the City to
Consultant's Subcontractor under no cireumstances operates to relieve Consultant of any of its
obligations or liabilities under this Agreement. Ths section is solely forthe benefit of the City
and does not grant any third party beneficiary rights.

F. The ity reserves the right to assign or otherwise transfer al or any part of is
Interests under this Agreement to any successor.

in
3.09 Confidentiality

‘A. All Deliverable and report, dat, findings or information in any form prepared,
assembled or encountered by o provided by Consultant under this Agreement are property of the
City and are confidential except as specifically authorize in this Agreement o as may be
required bylaw. Consultant must not allow the Deliverables o be made available to any other
individual or organization without the pice writen consent ofthe City. Further, all documents
and other information provided to Consultan by the City ae confidential and rust not be made
fvailable to any oter individual or organization without the prior writen conse ofthe Cty,
Constant must implement such measures as may be necesary to ensure that its sta and its
Subcontractors are bound by the confidentiality provsios in this Agrecment.

B. Consultant must not issue any publicity news releases or grant press interviews,
and except as may be required by law during or after the performance ofthis Agreement,
isseminate any information regarding its Services or the project to which the Servives peta
Without the prior written consent of the City Comptroller and Corporation Counsel.

If Consultant is presented with a request for documents by any administrative
‘agency oF with a subpoena duces tecum regarding any records, data or documents which may be
in Consultant's possession by reason of this Agreement, Consultant must immediatly give notice
to the City Comptroller and the Corporation Counsel fr the Cty withthe understanding that the
CCity will have the opportunity to contest such process by any means available to it before the
records, data or documents are submitted to court or other third party. Consultant, however, is
not obligated to withhold the delivery beyond the time ordered by a court or administrative
‘agency, unless the subpoens or request is quashed or the time to produce is otherwise extended.

310 City’s Policies and Procedures

Consultant covenants that it, the Consultant personnel, Subcontractors of Consultant and
their respective employees, and all ther agents and representatives of Consultant o its
Subcontractors, shall all imes comply with an abide by ll policies and procedures of City
(as such may exist or be revised or established by City fom time to time) tha reasonably pertain
4 Consultant in conection with Consultant's performance hereunder including al such polices
that pertain to conduct on City's premises, us or possession of contraband, or the accesso, oF
security and confidentiality of City's information technology data, oF resources, or related
systems, networks, equipment, property, or facilites. No such policies shall overie the express
provisions ofthis Agreement relating to ownership of Consultant's proprietary information.
Writen copies of sch policies and procedures shal be provided to Consultant by Cty upon
request. Prior o performing Services hereunder, each ofthe Consultant personnel who will have
acces 1 City’s data, software, or Confidential Information shal execute Citys standard form
Confidentiality agreements. Consultant sal issue o each Consultant personnel appropriate
access mechanisms (8. acces IDs, passwords, and acces card), which mechanisms shall Be
used only by the specific individuals to whom issued. Consultant shall provide each Consultant
personnel with only the level of acces that is appropriate ad required o perform the tasks and
finetions for which such person is responsible. Consultant shall fom time to time, and
promptly upon Ciy's request, provide City with an updated list of those Consultant personnel
‘who have the highest evel of access to City’s systems, software and data. Consultant shall

‘maintain and ensure the confidentiality and security of City's information systems, networks,
software and data in accordance with the terms ofthis Agreement, and shall in any event, teat
all such materials with a level of security atleast equivalent to that then being maintained by: ()
CCity with respect to such materials; and (i) Consultant with respect to its own similar systems
and data. Consultant shall cooperate with City in ensuring Consultant's compliance with the
polices and procedures described inthis Section 3.10, and any violations or disregard of such
Policies or procedures shall, in addition to all other available rights and remedies of City, be
‘cause for denial of access or use by the applicable Consultant personnel to City’s information
systems, networks, equipment, property and facilites.

ARTICLE 4, DURATION OF AGREEMENT
4.01 Term of Performance

This Agreement will take effect January 1, 2007 and will continue through December 31,
2013 or until the Agreement is terminated in accordance with its terms, whichever occurs firs.

4.02 Timeliness of Performance

(@) Consultant must provide the Services and Deliverables within the time limits
required under any Task Order pursuant tothe provisions of Section 3.01 and Exhibit
Further, Consultant acknowledges that TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE and that the failure
of Consultant to comply with the required time limits may result in economic or other
losses tothe City.

(®) Neither Consultant nor Consultants agents, employees or Subcontractors is
entitled to any damages from the City, nor is any party entitled tobe reimbursed by the City, for
damages, charges or other losses or expenses incurred by Consultant by reason of delays or
hindrances inthe performance of the Services, whether or not caused by the City

4.03 Agreement Extension Option

‘The Chief Procurement Officer may at any time before this Agreement expires elect to
‘extend this Agreement for up to 3 additonal one-year periods under the same terms and
‘conditions as this original Agreement, except as provided otherwise inthis Agreement, by notice
in writing to Consultant. After notification by the Chief Procurement Officer this Agreement
‘must be modified to reflect the time extension in secordance with the provisions of Section
11.93.

ARTICLE S. COMPENSATION

5.01 Basis of Payment

Each Task Order Request wil specify the basis of payment forthe satisfactory
performance of the Services requested and will either be lump sum, hourly rate, time and
materials witha guaranteed maximum price or such other method as specified inthe Task Order

Request. In each case where the Consultant is to be compensated based on an hourly rate, the
‘Budget will specify a maximum payment that cannot be exceeded without an amendment

‘The City will pay Consultant for completed Services and accepted Deliverables based on
the defined basis of payment and in accordance with the Compensation Schedule shown in
Exhibit 1 foreach TOR.

5.02 Budget for Ser

{As provided in Section 3.01, the Consultant will prepare a Cost Proposal as part ofeach
Proposal. The Cost Proposal foreach Proposal wll be deemed approved upon approval of the
‘Task Order. The Consultant will prepare its Cost Proposal in accordance with the basis of
payment specified in the applicable Task Order Request, cither lump sum, hourly rate, or time
and materials with a guaranteed maximum price or such other method as specified in the Task
Order Request. Ifa time and materials basis is specified, the Consultant will estimate the
numberof hours to complete the project and calculate the guaranteed maximum price based upon
its Fully-Loaded Hourly Rates. A Cost Proposal which does not conform tothe specified basis
of payment may be cause for rejection ofthe Proposal

5.03 Method of Payment

‘The method of payment depends on the basis of payment. The method of payment will
be specified in the Task Order Request. Payment will be made using the following processes:

For lump sum compensation, the Consultant will submit periodic invoices which may
prorate the lump sum on the bass of milestone Deliverables provided. For houey rate
‘compensation (time and materials), the Consultant will submit monthy invoices forthe hours
‘and direct costs incurred during the month and will explain any variances from the Budget.

The Project Documents wll specify a percentage ofthe compensation that will be
retained by the City from every invoice until all Deliverables have been accepted us provided in
this Agreement (Retainage”). In no event shall the Retainage be less than 10%. The Project
Documents may specify a higher Retainoge percentage

All invoices will be submitted in format and detail acceptable tothe City. Upon request
by the City, the Consultant will supply original time sheets, payroll registers, invoices, and such
cther documentation as may be necessary to support the amount invoiced. No invoices will be
submitted for under $500.00 unless they are submitted for final payment/project close-out. If
Consultant has an invoice for less than $500 and itis not the final paymentproject close-out, the
‘Consultant will hold the invoice and submit i the next time the total exceeds $500.

‘The City will process invoices for payment within 60 days after receipt of properly
‘completed and signed invoices accompanied by all necessary supporting documents verifying all
costs related 10 exch TOR,
504 Funding

‘Any payments under this Agreement will be made from the Law Department Fund No. 100- 99-
100-200S-4431-0142 from and from the Finance Department Fund No. 003-0100-099-2005-
(0142-0142 and various other funds and are subject to the appropriation and availabilty of funds
therein, The maximum amount to be encumbered under this fund for disbursement pursuant to
this Agreement (“Maximum Compensation") must not exceed $27,000,000.00 without an
amendment to this Agreement in accordance with Section 11.03 hereof. The Consultant will not
‘be entitled to any unexpended funds.

5.05 _Non-Appropriation

Ino funds or insufficient funds are appropriated and budgeted in any fiscal period of the
City for payments to be made under this Agreement, then the Cty will notify Consultant in
‘writing ofthat occurrence, and this Agreement wil terminate onthe earlier of the last day ofthe
fiscal period for which sufficient appropriation was made or whenever the funds appropriated for
payment under this Agreement are exhausted. Payments for Services completed to the date of,
‘notification will be made to Consultant except that no payments will be made or due to
Consultant under this Agreement beyond those amounts appropriated and budgeted by the City
to fund payments under this Agreement.

5.06 Subcontractor Payments

Consultant must submit a status report of Subcontractor payments with each invoice for
the duration of the Agreement on the “Subcontractor Payment Certification” form required by
the City. The form can be downloaded from the City’s website at
hutpu/egov.civofehicago.ong/webporal/COCWebPorta/COC_EDITORIAL/subcompliance pdf,
The statement mus list the following for Consultant and for each Subcontractor and supplier for
the period for which payment is requested:

(Total amount invoiced by the Consultant for the prior month;

(ii) The name of each particular Subcontractor or supplier utilized during the
prior month;

(lil) Indication if the Subcontractor or supplier is acting as an MBE, WBE,
DBE, or non-certfied firm on this Agreement;

(iv) The vendoe/supplier number of each Subcontractor or supplier;

(¥) Total amount invoiced that is to be paid to each Subcontractor or supplier.

If & Subcontractor has satisfactorily completed its Work, of provided specified materials in
accordance withthe requirements ofthe Agreement, Consuitant must pay Subcontractor for such
work or materials within fourten (14) calendar days of Consultant receiving payment ftom the
City

ARTICLE 6, COMPLIANCE WITH ALL LAWS

6.01 Compliance with All Laws Generally

(2) Consultant must observe and comply with all applicable federal, state, county and
‘municipal laws, statues, ordinances and executive orders, in effet now or later and whether or
‘ot they appear in this Agreement, including those set forth in this Amicle 6, and Consultant must
pay all taxes and obtain all licenses, certificates and other authorizations required by them.
Consultant must require all Subcontractors to doo, also. Further, Consultant must execute an
Economic Disclosure Statement and Affidavit ("EDS") in the form attached to this Agreement as
Exhibits. Notwithstanding acceptance by the City ofthe EDS, Consultant's failure in the EDS
to include all information required under the Municipal Code renders this Agreement voidable at
the option of the City. Consultant must promptly update its EDS(s) on file with the City
whenever any information or response provided in the EDS(s) is no longer complete and
accurate

(&) Notwithstanding anything inthis Agreement to the contrary, references to &
statute or law are considered to be a reference to (i) the statute or law a it may be amended from
time to time; (i) all regulations and rules pertaining to or promulgated pursuant to the statute or
Jaw; and (i) all future statutes, laws, regulations, rules and executive orders pertaining to the
same or similar subject matter.

6.02 Nondiserimination

(®) Consultant

Consultant must comply with 3
regulations prohibiting discrimination

licable federal, state, and local laws and related
individuals and groups.

(Federal Requirements

matt mast cogs a nel cmploment acts ch) fog
‘or refusing to hire or discharging any individual,
individual with respect to compensation or he terms, conditions, or privileges ofthe
individual's employment, because ofthe individuals race, colo, religion, sex, age,
hhandicapldisability or national origin; or (2) limiting, segregating or classifying
Consultant's employees or applicants for employment in any way that would deprive of
tend to deprive any individual of employment opportunites or otherwise adversely affect
the individual's status as an employee, because ofthe individuals race, color, religion,
sex, age, handicap/disability or national origi.

Consultant must comply with, and the procedures Consultant utilizes and the
Services Consultant provides under this Agreement must comply with, the Civil Rights
‘Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. sec. 2000¢ ef seg. (1981), as amended and the Civil Rights Act of
1991, PL, 102-166, Attention is called to: Exes. Order No. 11246, 30 Fed. Reg. 12,319
(1963), reprinted in 42 U.S.C. 20006 note, as amended by Exec. Order No. 11375, 32

Fed, Reg, 14,303 (1967) and by Exec. Order No. 12086, 43 Fed, Reg. 46,501 (1978); Age
Discrimination Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6101-6106 (1981); Age Discrimination in Employment
Act, 29 US.C. §§621-34; Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 U.S.C. §§ 793-794 (1981);
‘Americans with Disabilities Act, 42 US.C. §12101 et seg.; 41 CER. Part 60 et seq.
(1990); and all other applicable federal statues, regulations and other laws,

Gi) State Requirements

Consultant must comply with, and the procedures Consultant utilizes and the
Services Consultant provides under this Agreement must comply with, the Ilinois
Human Rights Act, 775 ILCS 5/1-101 er seg. (1990), as amended and any rules and
regulations promulgated in accordance with it, including the Equal Employment
‘Opportunity Clause, 44 Il. Admin. Code § 750 Appendix A. Furthermore, Consultant
rust comply with the Publie Works Employment Discrimination Act, 775 ILCS 10/0.01
‘30g, (1990), as amended, and all other applicable state statute, regulations and other
laws.

c

i) City Requirements

Consultant must comply with, and the procedures Consultant utilizes and the
Services Consultant provides under this Agreement must comply with, the Chicago
Human Rights Ordinance, ch.2-160, Section 2-160-010 er seq. of the Municipal Code of
‘Chicago (1990), as amended, and all other applicable Cty ordinances and rules.

(©) Subcontractors

Consultant must incorporate all ofthis Section 6.02 by reference inal agreements
‘entered into with any suppliers of materials, furnisher of services, Subcontractors of any ter, and
labor organizations that furnish skilled, unskilled and craft union skilled labor, or that may
provide any such materials, labor or services in connection with this Agreement. Further,
‘Consultant must furnish and must cause each of ts Subcontractors) to furnish such reports and
information a requested by the federal, state, and local agencies charged with enforcing such
laws and regulations, including the Chicago Commission on Human Relation.

6.03 Inspector General

It's the duy of any bidder, proposer oF Consultant, all Subcontractors, every applicant
for certification of eligibility fora City contractor program, and all officers, directors, agents,
partners and employees of any bidder, proposer, Consultant, Subcontractor or such applicant to
‘cooperate withthe Inspector General in any investigation or hearing undertaken pursuant 10
Chapter 2-56 of the Municipal Code of Chicago. Consultant understands and will abide by all
provisions of Chapter 2-56 ofthe Municipal Code of Chicago. All subcontracts must inform
‘Subcontractors ofthe provision and require understanding and compliance with it

6.04 MacBride Ordi

‘The City of Chicago through the passage ofthe MacBride Principles Ordinance seeks to
‘promote fair and equal employment opportunities and labor practices for religious minorities in
Northern Ireland and provide a better working environment for all etizens in Northern Ireland.

In accordance with Section 292-580 of the Municipal Code of the City of Chicago, ifthe
primary consultant conducts any business operations in Northern Irland, the consultant must
‘make all reasonable and good faith efforts to conduct any business operations in Norther Ireland
in accordance with the MacBride Principles for Northern Ireland as defined in llinois Public Act
£85-1390 (1988 lll, Laws 3220).

The provisions of this Section 6.04, do not apply to contracts for which the City receives
funds administered by the United States Department of Transportation, except to the extent
Congress has directed thatthe Department of Transportation not withhold funds from states and
localities that choose to implement selective purchasing policies based on agreement to comply
with the MacBride Principles for Norther Ireland, or the extent that such funds are not
ctherwise withheld by the Department of Transporation,

605 Business Relationships with Elected Officials,

Pursuant to Section 2-156-030(b) of the Municipal Code of the City of Chicago, itis
illegal for any elected official ofthe City, or any person acting atthe direction of such official, to
contact, either orally or in writing, any other City official or employee with respect to any matter
involving any person with whom the elected official has a business relationship, of to participate
inany discussion in any City Council committee hearing or in any City Council meeting otto
vote on any matte involving the person with whom an elected official has a business

Violation of Section 2-156-030(b) by any elected offical with respect to this
is grounds for termination of this Agreement. The term business relationship is
‘defined as set forth in Section 2-156-080 of the Municipal Code of Chicago.

Section 2-156-080 defines a “business relationship” as any contractual or other private
business dealing of an official, or his o her spouse, of of any entity in which an offical or his or
her spouse has a financial interest, witha person of entity which entitles an oficial to
‘compensation or payment in the amount of $2,500 or more in a calendar year, provided,
however, a financial interest shall not include: (i) any ownership through purchase at fair market
‘value or inheritance of tess than one percent ofthe share ofa corporation, or any corporate
subsidiary, parent or afiliate thereof, regardless of the value of or dividends on such shares, if
such shares are registered ona securities exchange pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended; (ji) the authorized compensation paid to an offical or employee for his office
‘or employment; (i) any economic benefit provided equally to all residents ofthe City; (iv) a
time or demand deposit ina financial institution; o (v) an endowment or insurance policy or
annuity contract purchased from an insurance company. A “contractual or other private business
<ealing” shall not include any employment relationship ofan official's spouse with an entity

‘when such spouse has no discretion concerning or input relating to the relationship between that
entity and the City

6.06 Chicago “Living Wage” Ordi

(2) Section 2-92-610 of the Municipal Code provides fora living wage for
certain categories of workers employed in the performance of City contracts, specifically
‘non-City employed security guards, parking attendants, day laborers, home and health care
‘workers, cashiers, elevator operators, custodial workers and clerical workers ("Covered
imployees”). Accordingly, pursuant to Section 2-92-610 and regulations promulgated under

20
(® If Consultant has 25 or more fullsime employees, and

{) at any time during the performance ofthis Agreement,
Consultant and/or any Subcontractor or any other ent that provides any portion
‘of the Services (collectively "Performing Partie") uses 25 or more full-time
security guards, or any numberof other full-time Covered Employees, then

Gil) Consultant must pay its Covered Employees, and must ensure that
all other Performing Parties pay their Covered Employees, not less than the
minimum hourly rate as determined in accordance with this provision (the "Base
Wage’) forall Services performed under this Agreement.

(©) _ Consultant's obligation o pay, and to ensure payment of, the Base Wage will
begin at any time during the term of this Agreement when the Conditions st forth in (a)) and
(@)(i) above are met, and will continue until the end ofthe term of this Agreement.

(©) Asof July 1, 2006, the Base Wage is $10.00 per hour, and each July I thereafter,
the Base Wage will be adjusted using the most recent federal poverty guidelines fora family of
four as published annually by the US. Department of Health and Human Services, to constitute
the following: the poverty guidelines for a family of four divided by 2000 hours oF the eurrent
‘base wage, whichever is higher. The currently applicable Base Wage is available from the
Department of Procurement Services. At all times during the term of this Agreement, Consultant
nd all other Performing Parties must pay the Base Wage (as adjusted in accordance with the
above). Ifthe payment of prevailing wages is required for Services done under this Agreement,
and the prevailing wages for Covered Employees are higher than the Base Wage, then
‘Consultant and all other Performing Parties must pay the prevailing wage rates.

(Consultant must include provisions in ll subcontracts requiring its
Subcontractors to pay the Base Wage to Covered Employees. Consultant agres to provide the
City with documentation acceptable to the CPO demonstrating that all Covered Employees,
‘whether employed by Consultan or by a Subeontraior, have been pad the Base Wage upon the
City’s request for such documentation. The Cty may independently audit Consultant andor
‘Subcontractors to verify compliance wit his section, Failure to comply with the requirements
ofthis setion will bean event of default under this Agreement, and farther, lure wo comply
‘may result in ineligibility for any award of City contractor subcontract for upto 3 years.

(©) Nottor-Profit Corporations: If Consultant isa corporation having federal tax
‘exempt status under Section 501(c)(3) ofthe Internal Revenue Code and is recognized under
linois not-for-profit law, then the provisions of subsections (a) through (4) above do not apply.
6.07 Environmental Warranties and Representations

In accordance with Section 11-4-1600(e) of the Municipal Code of Chicago, Consultant

warrants and represents that it, and tothe best of its knowledge, its subcontractors have not
Violated and are not in violation of the following sections of the Code (collectively, the Waste
7-28-390 Dumping on public way;

7-28-440 Dumping on real estate without permit;
1-4-1410 Disposal in waters prohibited;

1-4-1420 Ballast tank, bilge tank or other discharge;
1-4-1450 Gas manufacturing residue;

11-4-1500 Treatment and disposal of solid or liquid waste;
11-4-1530 Compliance with rules and regulations required;
11-4-1550 Operational requirements; and

1-4-1560 Screening requirements

During the period while this Agreement is executory, Consultants or any subeontractor's
violation ofthe Waste Sections, whether or not relating tothe performance ofthis Agreement,
constitutes a breach of and an event of default under this Agreement, for which the opportunity
to cure, if curable, will be granted only atthe sole designation of the CPO. Such breach and
<efault entitles the City to all remedies under the Agreement, at law or inequity.

‘This section does not limit Consultant's and its subcontractors’ duty to comply with all
applicable federal, sate, county and municipal laws, statues, ordinances and executive orders, in
effect now of later, and whether or not they appear inthis Agreement.

‘Non-compliance with these terms and conditions may be used by the City as grounds for
the termination ofthis Agreement, and may further affect Consultant’ eligibility for future
contract awards.

6.08 Prohibition on Certain Contributions

Consultant agrees that Consultant, any person or entity who directly or indirectly has an
‘ownership or beneficial interest in Consultant of more than 7.5 percent ("Owners"), spouses and
domestic partners of such Owners, Consultant's subcontractors, any person or entity who directly
‘or indirectly has an ownership or beneficial interest in any subcontractor of more than 7.5
pereent (‘Sub-owners”) and spouses and domestic partners of such Sub-owners (Consultant and
all the other preceding classes of persons and entities are together, the “Identified Parties"),
shall not make contribution of any amount to the Mayor of the City of Chicago (“Mayor”) or
to his political fundraising committee (i) after execution ofthis Agreement by Consultan, (i
while this Agreement or any Other Contract is executory ii) during the term ofthis Agreement
‘or any Other Contract between Consultant and the City, or (iv) during any period while an
extension ofthis Agreement or any Other Contract is being sought or negotiated

Consultant represents and warrants that since the date of public advertisement of the
specification, request for qualifications, request for proposals or request for information (or any
combination of those requests) or, if not competitively procured, from the date the City
approached Consultant or the date Consultant approached the City, as applicable, regarding the
formulation of this Agreement, no Identified Parties have made a contribution of any amount to
the Mayor or to his political fundraising commit.

Consultant agrees that it shall not: (a) coerce, compel or intimidate its employees to
‘make contribution of any amount to the Mayor oto the Mayer's political fundraising
‘committe; (b) reimburse its employees for a contribution of any amount made to the Mayor or
to the Mayor's political fundraising committe; o (c) bundle or solicit others to bundle
‘contributions tothe Mayor orto his political fundraising committee

Consultant agrees that the Identified Parties must not engage in any conduct whatsoever
‘designed to intentionally violate this provision or Mayoral Executive Order No. 05-1 oro entice,
<irect or solicit others to intentionally violate this provision or Mayoral Executive Order No. 05-
1

Consultant agrees that a violation of, non-compliance with, mistepresentation with
respect to, or breach of any covenant or warranty under this provision of violation of Mayoral
Executive Order No. 05-1 constitutes a breach and default under this Agreement, nd under any
‘Other Contract for which no opportunity to cure wil be granted. Such breach and default
‘etitls the City to all remedies (including without limitation termination for default) under this
‘Agreement, under Other Contract, at law and in equity. This provision amends any Other
‘Contract and supersedes any inconsistent provision contained therein.

Consultant violates this provision or Mayoral Executive Order No, 05-1 prior to award
‘of the Agreement resulting from this specification, the CPO may reject Consultant's bid,

For purposes ofthis provision:

“Bundle” means to collect contributions from more than one source which ae then
<elivered by one person tothe Mayor ot his political fundraising commitee

“Other Contract” means any other agreement with the City of Chicago to which
Consultant is a party that is i) formed under the authority of chapter 2.92 ofthe
“Municipal Code of Chicago; (i) entered into forthe purchase or lease of real or personal
property; or (i) for materials, supplies, equipment or services which are approved or
Authorized by the city counc

“Contribution” means a “politcal contribution” as defined in Chapter 2-156 ofthe
“Municipal Code of Chicago, as amended,

Individuals are “Domestic Partners” i they satisfy the following criteria

(A) they are each others sole domestic partner, responsible for each other's
‘common welfare; and

(B) neither party is married and

(C) the partners are not related by blood closer than would bar marriage inthe
State of Hlinois; and

(D) cach parneris at least 18 years of age, and the partners are the same sex,
‘andthe partners reside at the same residence; and

(©) to ofthe following four conditions exist forthe partners:
1. The partners have been residing together for at least 12 month.
2, The partners have common or joint ownership of a residence
3. The partners have atleast two ofthe following arrangements:

2. Joint ownership of a motor vehicle;

joint credit account;

© joint checking account;

4. allease fora residence identifying both domestic partners as
tenants

4. Each partner identifies the other partner as a primary beneficiary in

oltcal fundraising committee” means a "political fundraising committee” as defined in
(Chapter 2-156 ofthe Municipal code of Chicago, as amended.”

6.09 Firms Owned or Operated by Individuals with Disabilities

‘The City encourages consultants to use Subcontractors that are fis owned or operated
by individuals with disabilities, as defined by Section 2-92-86 ofthe Municipal Code of the
ity of Chicago, where not otherwise prohibited by federal or state law.

6.10 Deemed Inclusion

Provision(s) required by law, ordinances, rules, regulations, or executive orders to
be inserted will be deemed inserted whether or not they appear in this Agreement of, upon
application by either party, this Agreement will forthwith be amended to literally make such
insertion; however, in no event will the failure to insert such provision(s) prevent the
‘enforcement of this Agreement,

G11 False Statements
(2) 1-21-010 False Statements

‘Any person who knowingly makes a false statement of material fact tothe cit
Violation of any statue, ordinance of regulation, or who knowingly falsties any statement of
‘material fact made in connection with an application, report, affidavit, oath, or attestation,
including a statement of material fact made in connection with a bid, proposal, contract oF
‘economic disclosure statement or afidavit, is liable tothe city fora civil penalty of not less than
'$500.00 and not more than $1,000.00, plus up to three times the amount of damages which the
city sustains because of the person's Violation of this section, A person who violates this section
shal also be liable forthe city’ litigation and collection costs and attorney's Tes.

‘The penalties imposed by this section shall bein addition to any other penalty provided for in
the municipal code. (Added Coun J. 12-15-04, p. 39915, § 1)

(©) 1-21-020 Aiding and abetting
‘Any person who aids, abets, incites, compels or coerces the doing of any act prohibited by this

chapter shal be liable tothe city forthe same penalties forthe violation. (Added Coun. J, 12-15-
04, p. 39915, §1)

(©) 1-21-030 Enforcement
In addition to any other means authorized by law, the corporation counsel may enforce this
chapter by instituting an action with the department of administrative hearings. (Added Coun. J.
12-15-04, p. 39915, § 1)

ARTICLE 7. SPECIAL CONDITIONS
7.01 Warranties and Representations
In connection with signing and carrying out this Agreement, Consultant:

(2) warrants that Consultant is appropriately licensed under Illinois law to perform
the Services required under this Agreement and will perform no Services for which a
professional licens is required by law and for which Consultant isnot appropriately licensed;

(©) warrants itis financially solvent; it and each ofits employees, agents and
‘Subcontractors of any ter are competent to perform the Services required under this Agreement;
and Consultant is legally authorize to execute and perform or cause to be performed this
‘Agreement under the terms and conditions stated inthis Agreement;

(©) warrants that ic will ot knowingly use the services of any ineligible contractor oF
Subeontractor for any purpose inthe performance ofits Services under this Agreement;

(@) warrants that Consultant and its Subcontractors are notin defeult atthe time this
‘Agreement is signed, and have not been deemed by the Chief Procurement Ofer to have,
‘within 5 years immediately preceding the date of this Agreement, ben found to bein default on
any contract awarded by the City;

(©) represents that it has carefully examined and analyzed the provisions and
requitements ofthis Agreement; it understands the nature ofthe Services required; from its own,
‘analysis it has satisfied itself as tothe nature ofall things needed for the performance ofthis
‘Agreement; this Agreement is feasible of performance in accordance with all of its provisions
tnd requirements, and Consultant warrants it can and will perform, or cause to be performed, the
Serviees in strict accordance with the provisions and requirements of this Agreement;

(represents that Consultant and, tothe bes of its knowledge, its Subcontractors are
rot in violation ofthe provisions of § 292-320 of the Municipal Code , and in connection with
it and additionally in connection withthe Ilinois Criminal Code, 720 ILCS $/33E as amended,
and the Ilinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS $/11-42.1-1;,

(@) acknowledges that any certification, affidavit or acknowledgment made under
‘ath in connection with this Agreement is made under penalty of perjury and, if false, is also
‘cause for termination under Sections 10.02 and 10,03 of this Agreement; and

(H) warrants and represents that nether Consultant nor an Affiliate of Consultant (a8
defined below) appears on the Specially Designated Nationals List, the Denied Persons List, the
‘unverified List, the Entity List, or the Debarred List as maintained by the Office of Foreign
Assets Control ofthe U.S. Department of the Treasury or by the Bureau of Industry and Security
‘of the U.S. Department of Commerce (or their suecessors), or on any other lst of persons or
‘eatities With which the City may not do business under any applicable law, rule, regulation, order
‘or judgment. “Affiliate of Consultant"means a person or entity that directly (or indirectly
through one or more intermediaries) controls, is controlled by or is under common control with
Consultant. A person or entity will be deemed to be controlled by another person or entity fit is
controlled in any manner whatsoever that results in control infact by that other person or entity
(cither acting individually or acting jointly o in concert with others) whether directly oF

indirectly and whether through share ovmership, a trast, a contractor otherwise

a. Representations; Covenants

‘A. Consultant represents tothe City tht:

(itis a business corporation duly incorporated, validly exiting and in good
sanding under the laws of Ilinois;

Gi) thas the requisite corporate power and authority to execute, deliver and perform
its obligations under this Agreement and i is financially solvent;

ithe execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement have been duly
authorized by the Consultant;

(v) no approval, authorization, or consent of any governmental or regulatory authority
is required to be obtained or made by Consultant in order fr it to enter into and perform its
obligations under this Agreement,

(¥)___ ithas obtained all applicable permis, rights, and licenses required in connection
with Consultant performing its obligations hereunder;

(Wi) itand each ofits employees, agents, subcontractors of any tier are skilled and
experienced in the activity tobe performed by such person and competent to perform the
Services required under this Agreement;

(i) _its Proposal, including but not limited tits statements and representations that it
holds itself to very high standards of quality and professionalism, was accurate atthe time it was
made and no material changes init have been made nor will be made without notice to and the
express written consent ofthe City;

(iif) itis not in default atthe time of the execution of this Agreement and has not been
deemed by the CPO with five years immediately preceding the date ofthis Agreement to be in
default on any contract awarded by the City; and
(ix) _ itis not deemed tobe ineligible and will not knowingly use the services of any
consultant or consultant deemed to ineligible for contracts by any federal, tate, or local
governmental agency for any purpose in the performance of its Services under this Agreement;

(%) __itand, tothe best of its knowledge, its Subcontractors are not in violation of the
provisions of § 2-92-320 ofthe Municipal Code , and in connection wth it, and additionally in
connection with the Illinois Criminal Code, 720 ILCS 5/33E as amended, andthe Ilinois
Municipal Code, 65 ILCS $/11-42.1-1;

(xi) acknowledges that any certification, affidavit or acknowledgment made under
‘ath in connection with this Agreement is made under penalty of perjury and, if false, is also
cause for termination under Sections 10,01 and 10.02 ofthis Agreement; and

(xi) _neither Consultant nor an Affiliate of Consultant (as defined below) appears on
the Specially Designated Nationals List, the Denied Persons List, the unverified List, the Eatity
List, othe Debarted Listas maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S.
Department of the Treasury or by the Bureau of Industry and Security ofthe U.S. Department of
‘Commerce (o thelr successors), or on any other list of persons or entities with which the City
‘may not do business under any applicable law, rule, regulation, order or judgment. “AMiiate of
Consultant” means person or entity that directly (or indirectly through one ot more
intermediaries) controls, is controlled by or is under common control with Consultant, A person
‘or entity will be deemed tobe controlled by another person or entity if ts controlled in any
manner whatsoever that results in contro in fact by that other person or entity either acting
individually or acting jointly or in concert with others) whether directly or indirectly and
whether through share ownership, a trust a contract or otherwise,

B. Consultant covenants to the City that:
(it will comply with all applicable federal, sate, and local laws and regulations;

Gi) _itwill obtain all applicable permits, rights and licenses required in connection
with the Consultant performing its obligations hereunder,

(ifthe Services and any software used by the Consultant in providing the Services
and the Deliverables will not infringe upon the trademark, copyright, trade secrets or other
proprietary rights of any thind party; and

(iv) twill not, directly or through a third party, remove, alter, change or interface with
the Deliverables for any purpose of preventing the City from utilizing the Deliverables.

b. Warranty

A.__ For Deliverables provided in response to a TOR, Consultant represents and
‘warrant that:

2
1. ‘The Services provided hereunder shall be performed in professional and
‘workmanlike manner, in accordance with applicable professional standards.

2. The Deliverables provided under any Task Order will conform in all respects to
the Task Order Request and Documentation and shall be free of errors or defects in design,
‘material and workmanship.

3. Themedia furnished by the Consultant on which any ofthe Deliverables are
furnished shall be fe from defects in materials and workmanship under normal use fora period
‘of 90 days from Acceptance. Consultant mus, at its expense, replace any defective media within
10 days after the City notifies Consultant.

B. The Consultant represents and warrants that all Deliverables:
(correctly and accurately processes date/time data (including, but not limited to,

calculating, comparing, and sequencing) from, into and between the twentieth and twenty-first
‘centuries and leap year calculations;

(ii) respond to two digit date input in a way that resolves the ambiguity as to century
disclosed, defined and pre-determined manner; and

i)store and provide output of date information in ways thet are unambiguous as to
century,

C. The warranties contained in this section will continue for a period of one year
(Warranty Petiod”) after Acceptance (unless otherwise specified inthis section or the Project
Documents). Ifthe City notifies the Consulta, oF the Consultant becomes aware, of any non-
performance, error or defect covered by the foregoing warranties with the Warranty Period, the
Consultant shall, a its expense, promptly correct such nonperformance, eror or defect, but in no
‘event later than 30 days after notification by the City. Any repair or replacement of Deliverables
‘or portions thereof will be additionally and automatically warranted asset forth herein. All
‘warranties will survive inspection, acceptance and payment.

& — NoOther Rights Limited

[Nothing in the foregoing warranties will be construed to limit anyother rights or
remedies otherwise available to the City under this Agreement

702 Ethics
(@) _Inaddition tothe foregoing warranties and representations, Consultant warrants:
(no officer, agent or employee ofthe City is employed by Consultant or has
«financial interest directly of indirectly inthis Agreement or the compensation to be paid under

this Agreement except as may be permitted in writing by the Board of Ethics established under
Chapter 2-156 ofthe Municipal Code .
(ii) no payment, gratuity or offer of employment will be made in connection
with this Agreement by or on behalf of any Subcontractors to Consultant or higher tier
Subcontractors or anyone associated with them, as an inducement forthe award ofa subcontract
or onde.

(b) Consultan further acknowledges that any Agreement entered into, negotiated or
performed in violation of any ofthe provisions of Chapter 2-156 is voidable as to the City

7.03 Joint and Several Liability

Inthe event that Consulta, or its successors or assigns, if any, is comprised of more
than one individual or other legal entity (or a combination thereof, then and in that event, each
and every obligation or undertaking herein stated tobe fulfilled or performed by Consultant will
be the joint and several obligation or undertaking of each such individual or other legal entity,

704 Bu

yess Documents

tthe request ofthe City, Consultant must provide copies ofits latest articles of
incorporation, by-laws and resolutions, or partnership of joint venture agreement, as applicable,

7.08 Conflicts of Interest

‘A. _Nomember of the governing body ofthe City or other unit of government and no
‘other officer, employee or agent of the Cty or other unit of government who exercises any
functions or responsibilities in connection with the Services to which this Agreement pertains is
permitted to have any personal interest, director indirect, in this Agreement, No member of or
<elegate to the Congress of the United States or the Illinois General Assembly and no alderman,
ofthe City or City employee is allowed to be admitted to any share or part ofthis Agreement or
toany financial benefit o arise from it.

B. Consultant represents that it, and tothe best of its knowledge, its Subcontractors
if any (Consultant and Subcontractors wll be collectively refereed to in this Section 7.05 as
"Contracting Parties", presently have no director indirect interes and will not scquize any
<irect or indirect intrest in any projector contract that would conflict in any manner or degree
with the performance of its Services under this Agreement.

Upon the request ofthe City, Contracting Parties must disclose to the City their
list andthe names of any clients with whom they have an ongoing relationship.
Contracting Parties are not permitted to perform any Services forthe City on applications or
ther documents submitted tothe City by any of Contracting Parties’ past or present clients. If
Contracting Parties become aware of conflict they must immediately top work on the
assignment causing the conflict and notify the Cty

D. Without limiting the foregoing, ifthe Contracting Parties assist the City in

29
‘determining the advisability or feasibility ofa project or in recommending, researching,
preparing, drafting or issuing a request for proposals or bid specifications fora projec, the
Contracting Panties must not participate, directly or indirectly, as a prime, subcontractor or joint
‘enturer in that projector inthe preparation ofa proposal or bid for that project during the term.
ofthis Agreement or afterwards. The Contracting Parties may, however, assist the ity
reviewing the proposals or bids for the projet ifnone of the Contracting Parties have &
relationship withthe persons or entities that submitted the proposals or bids for that projec.

E, Further, Contracting Parties must not assign any person having any conflicting
interest o perform any Services under tis Agreement or have access to any confidential
information, as described in Section 3,09 of this Agreement. Ifthe City, by the City Comptroller
‘and Corporation Counsel in his reasonable judgment, determines that any of Contracting Parties!
services for others conflict withthe Services that Contracting Parties are to render fr the City
under this Agreement, Contracting Parties must terminate such other services immediately upon
request of the City

F. Furthermore ifany federal funds are to be used to compensate or reimburse
Consultant under this Agreement, Consultant represents that itis and will remain in compliance
with federal restrictions on lobbying set forth in Section 319 ofthe Department ofthe Interior
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 1990, 31 U.S.C. § 1352, and related
rues and regulations set forth at $4 Fed. Reg. 52,309 fF (1989), as amended. If federal funds are
to be used, Consultant must execute a Certification Regarding Lobbying, which is part of the
EDS and incorporated by reference as if fully set forth her.

7.06 Non-liability of Public Officials

[No official, employee or agent of the City will be charged personally by Consultant, or
by any assignee or Subcontractor ofthe Consultant, with any lability or expenses of defense or
be held personally liable to them under any term of provision ofthis Agreement, or because of
the City's execution or attempted execution, or because of any breach hereof.

7.07 EDS / Certification Regarding Suspension and Debarmeat

Consultant certifies, as further evidenced in the EDS attached as Exhibit 5, by its
‘acceptance of this Agreement that neither it nor is principals is presently debarred, suspended,
proposed for debarment, declared ineligible or voluntarily excluded from participation in this
‘transaction by any federal department or agency. Consultant further agrees by executing this
‘Agreement that it wll include this clause without modification in all lower tier transactions,
solicitations, proposals, contracts and subcontracts. If Consultant or any lower tier participant is
tunable to certify to this statement, it must attach an explanation tothe Agreement

ARTICLE 8, RISK MANAGEMENT

8.01 Consultant's Insurs

x0

‘Consultant must provide and maintain at Consultant's own expense, until contact
completion and during the time period following completion if Consultant is required to retum
and perform any additional work, the insurance coverages and requirements specified in Exhibit
3, insuring all operations related to the Agreement.

‘A. General Indemaification

1. Consultant must defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City, its officers,
representatives, elected and appointed officials, agents and employees from and against any and
all Losses, including those related to:

(2) injury, death or damage of orto any person or property:

(©) Consultant’ failure to perform of cause to be performed Consultant's
promises and obligations as and when required under this Agreement, including Consultant's
failure to perform its obligations to any Subcontractor,

(©) the City's exercise ofits rights and remedies under Section 10.02 of this
‘Agreement; and

(4) Injuries to or death of any employee of Consultant or any Subcontractor
under any workers compensation statute.

2. “Losses” means, individually and collectively, liabilities of every kind, including
losses, damages and reasonable costs, payments and expenses (such as, but not limited to, court,
costs and reasonable attomeys’ fees and disbursements), claims, demands, ations, suits,
proceedings, judgments or settlements, any ofall of which in any way arise out of or relate to
Consultant's breach of this Agreement of to Consultant's negligent o otherwise wrongful acts or
“missions or those of its officers, agents, employees, consultants, Subcontractors o licensees,

3. At the City Corporation Counsel's option, Consultant must defend all suits
brought upon all such Losses and must pay all costs and expenses incidental to them, but the City
has the right, tits option, to participate, at its own cost, in the defense of any suit, without
relieving Consultant of any of its obligations under this Agreement. Any settlement must be
‘made only with the prior written consent ofthe City Corporation Counsel, ifthe settlement
requires any ation on the part ofthe Cty.

4, Tothe extent permissible by law, Consultant waives any limits on its obligations
to defend, indemnify, hold harmless or contribute to any sums due under any Losses, including
any claim by any employee of Consultant that may be subject to the Workers Compensation Act,
820 ILCS 305/1 et seq. or any other law or judicial decision (such as, Kotecki v, Cyclops
Welding Corporation, 146 Ill 2d 15 (1991). The City, however, does not waive any limitations

itmay have on its lability under the Illinois Workers Compensation Act, the
Code, of any other statue or judicial decision

5. __ The indernitis in this section survive the expiration or termination ofthis
‘Agreement for matters occurring or arising during the tem ofthis Agreement or as the result of
‘oF during Consultant's performance of Services beyond the term. Consultant acknowledges that
the requirements set forth inthis section to defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City are
apart from and not limited by the Consultants duties under this Agreement, including the
insurance requirements in Exhibit 3 of this Agreement,

B. Proprietary Rights Indemnification

1. _ The Consultant will indemnify, defend and hold completely harmless the City
Indemnitees from and against any Losses relating to or arising out of infringement or alleged
ingtingement by any part ofthe Consultant's Deliverables of any patent or copyright or other
proprietary rights, provided however, that this indemnification provision will) not apply to an
infkingement or alleged infringement caused by any modification or alteration ofthe
‘Consultant's Deliverables not approved by Consultant, if, but only tothe extent that, the
infkingement would not have occurred but for such modification or at

2. Promptly afer the Consultant receives written notice of any claim, ction, suit oF
proceeding which is subject to indemnification under this Section, Consultant must: (7) notify the
‘Cty that Consultant will undertake the defense thereof, and (li) etan legal counsel reasonably
satisfactory o the City to conduct the defense thereof. The Consultant and the City will
‘cooperate with the party which undertakes the defense of such claim, action, suit or proceeding
in any manner that such party reasonably requests ofthe other. Inthe event thatthe Consultant
fails to undertake its defense or subsequently abandons its defense, the City may (but is not
‘obligated 1o) defend, compromise o sete such claim, action, suitor proceeding at Consultant's
‘expense. The Consultant wll not compromise or settle any claim, action, suit o proceeding in
‘which any relief other than the payment of money damages is sought against the City without the
prior written consent of the City

3. Inthe event of any claim, action, suit or proceeding, the Consultant wil: (i)
successfully defend such, or (i) obtain the right for the City to continue using the ining
product or proprietary property, or ii) modify the Consultant's Deliverables at Consultant's cost
to-make it non-inftinging, without material loss of function or utility and without a material
increase in operating cost, or (i) replace the infringing vendor material wth materi
cconttining atleast equivalent functionality asthe infringing vendor materia

ARTICLE 9. DISPUTES

Except as otherwise provided inthis Agreement, Consultant must and the City may bring
any dispute arising under this Agreement which isnot resolved by the parties tothe CPO for
decision based upon the writen submissions ofthe partis. (A copy of the "Regulations ofthe
Department of Procurement Services for Resolution of Disputes between Contractors andthe
City of Chicago” is available in City Hall, 121 N. LaSalle Street, Room 301, Bid and Bond
Room, Chicago, Illinois 60602.) The Chief Procurement Officer wil issue a writen decision
and send ito the Consultant by mail. The decision ofthe CPO is final and binding. The sole
and exclusive remedy to challenge the decision of the CPO is judicial review by means of @
common law writ of certiorari,

The Consultant will not withhold performance of any Service and the City will not
withhold any undisputed payments during the dispute resolution period. The CPO's writen
determination must be complied with pending any judicial review of the dispute,

ARTICLE 10. EVENTS OF DEFAULT, REMEDIES, TERMINATION, SUSPENSION
"AND RIGHT TO OFFSET

10.01 Events of Default
A. Defined
‘The following constitute events of default:

1, Any material misrepresentation, whether negligent or willl and whether inthe
inducement or inthe performance, made by Consultant tothe City.

2. The Consultant's material failure to perform any ofits obligations under the
‘Agreement including, but not limited to, the following:

‘Inability to perform the Services satisfactorily asa result of insolvency,
filing for bankruptey of assignment forthe benefit of creditors;

b. Failure to comply with a material term of this Agreement, including but
‘not limited to the provisions conceming insurance and nondiscrimination;

© Failure to have and maintain all professional licenses required by law to
perform the Services;

4 lure to timely perform the Services;

© Feilure to prompilyre-perform, as required, within a reasonable time and
tno cost tothe City, Services that are rejected as erroneous of
unsatisfactory;

£ Discontinuance of the Services for reasons within Consultant's reasonable
contro

Failure to promptly update EDS(s) furnished in connection with this
‘Agreement when the information or responses contained init or them is no
longer complete or accurate; and

1h. Any other ats specifically and expressly stated in this Agreement as
constituting an event of default,

3. For Services or Deliverables provided in response toa TOR:

8, Fallure to perform the Services with sufficient personnel and equipment or
‘with sufficient material to ensure the satisfactory performance of the
Services;

. Failure to perform the Services in accordance with the standard of
performance required by this Agreement oto the level specified inthe
“Task Order then in effect;

€, _Pailure to promptly perform again Services which were rejected as
‘erroneous or unsatisfactory;

4, Discontinuance of Services for reasons within Consultants reasonable
contol;

4. Any change in ownership or contro ofthe Consultant without the prior approval
‘of the CPO (when such prio approval is permissible by law), which will nt be
‘unreasonably withheld

5. The Consultant's default under any other agreement it may presently have or may,
center into with the City during the life ofthis Agreement. The Consultant
acknowledges and agrees that in the event ofa default under this Agreement the
City may also declare a default under any such other agreements.

6. Consultant's violation of City ordinance(s) unrelated to performance under the
‘Agreement such that, inthe opinion of the CPO, it indicates a willful o reckless
disregard for City laws and regulations.

7. Consultant's failure to update its EDS to reflect any changes in information,
including changes in ownership, and to provide itt the City as provided under
Seation 6.01

B, Declaration of Default

‘The occurrence of any event of default permits the City at the City’s sole option, to
declare Consultant in default. The CPO may in is sole discretion give Consultant an
‘opportunity to cure the default within a certain period oftime, which period of time must not
‘exceed 30 days unless extended by the CPO, Whether to declare Consultant in default is within
the sole disertion ofthe CPO and neither that decision nor the factual basis for itis subject to
review or challenge under the Disputes provision of this Agreement.

‘The CPO will give Consultant written notice of the default, ether inthe form of cure
notice "Cure Notice”), or, ifno opportunity to cure will be granted, a default notice ("Default
Notice"). Ifthe CPO gives a Default Notice, he will also indicate any present intent he may
have to terminate this Agreement, and the decision to terminate is final and effective upon giving
the notice. Ifthe CPO decides not to terminate, thi decision will not preclude bim from later
deciding to terminate the Agreement in a later notice, which will be final and effective upon the
siving ofthe notice oron the date set forth in the notice, whichever is later. The CPO may give
1 Default Notice if Consultant fils to effect a cure within the cure period given in a Cure Notice.
‘When a Default Notice with intent to terminate is given as provided in this Section 10.01 and
Article 12, Consultant must discontinue any Services, unless otherwise directed in the notice, and
<eliver all materials accumulated in the peeforrnance ofthis Agreement, whether completed or in
the process, to the City

10.02. Remedies
A. General

1. Ifthe vendor has filed to cure a default within the period granted by the CPO, or
the CPO has declared an event of default, the City may invoke any or all ofthe following
remedies:

1. Therightto take over and complete the Services, or any part of them, at
Consultant's expense and as agent for Consultant, either directly or through
thers, and bill Consultant fr the cost ofthe Services, and Consultant must pay
the difference between the total amount of this bill and the amount the City would
hhave paid Consultant under the terms and conditions ofthis Agreement for the
Services that were assumed by the City as agent for Consultant under this Section
10.02,

b. Theright to terminate this Agreement as to any or all ofthe Services yet to be
performed effective at a time specified by the City.

 _Theright to seek specific performance, an injunction or any other appropriate
equitable remedy.

4. Theright to seek money damages.

© Therightto withhold all or any part of the Consultants compensation

£ ‘Therightto declare the Consultant non-esponsibe in future contracts with the
Cit.

8 Theright to declare the Consultant in default under existing City contracts

2. _In.iton, upon he giving of notice ofa declaration of d

provided herein, the City may invoke any o all ofthe following remedies:
8, Theright to take over and complete the Services or any pat thereof as agent for
and at the cost of the Consultant, either directly or through others.

b. _Theright to require the Consultant to discontinue any Services and deliver all
materials accumulated in the performance of this Agreement, whether completed
‘or in the process, to the City

B. City’s Reservation of Rights

the CPO considers it to be in the Citys best interests, he may elect not to declare
<efault orto terminate the Agreement hereunder. The pares acknowledge that this provision is
solely forthe benefit of the City and that if the City permits the Consultant to continue to provide
the Services despite one of more events of default, the Consultant wil in no way be relieved of
any of ts responsibilities, duties or obligations under this Agreement nor will the City waive or
relinquish any ofits rights

. Remedies Nonexclusive

The remedies under the terms ofthe Agreement are not intended to be exclusive of any
other remedies provided, but each and every such remedy will be cumulative and willbe in
addition to any other remedies, existing now or hereafter, at law or equity. No delay or omission
to exercise any right or power accruing upon any event of default will impair any such right or
power nor will it be construed as a waiver of any event of default or acquiescence therein, and
every such right and power may be exercised from time to time and as often as may be deemed
expedient

10.03 Early Termination

(@) In adition to termination under Sections 10.01 and 10.02 of this Agreement, the
City may terminate this Agreement, o all of any portion ofthe Services to be performed under

any time by a notice in writing from the City to Consultant, The City will give notice to
Consultant in accordance with the provisions of Antile 12."The effective date of termination will
be the date the notice is received by Consultant othe date stated in the notice, whichever is later.
Ifthe City elects to terminate this Agreement in full, all Services to be provided under it must
cease and all materials that may have been accumulated in performing this Agreement, whether
‘completed or in the process, must be delivered tothe Cty effective 10 days aftr the date the
notice is considered received as provided under Article 12 ofthis Agreement (ifno date is given)
‘or upon the effective date stated inthe notice.

(&) _Afler the notice is received, Consultant must restrict its activities, and those ofits
‘Subcontractors, to winding down any repors, analyses, or other activities previously begun. No
‘costs incurred after the effective date ofthe termination are allowed. Payment for any Services
‘ctutlly and satisfactorily performed before the effective date of the termination ison the same
basis asset forth in Article 5, but if any compensation is described or provided for on the basis of
‘8 period longer than 10 days, then the compensation must be prorated accordingly. No amount

6
‘of compensation, however, is permitted for anticipated profits on unperformed Services. The
City and Consultant must attempt to agree on the amount of compensation to be paid to
Consultant, but ifnot agreed on the dispute must be setled in accordance with Article 9of this
‘Agreement. The payment so made to Consultant isin fll settlement forall Services
satisfactorily performed under this Agreement.

(© Consultant must include in its contracts with Subcontractors an early termination
provision in form and substance equivalent to this early termination provision to prevent claims
‘against the City arising from termination of subcontracts after the early termination. Consultant
Will not be entitled to make any early termination claims against the City resulting from any
Subcontractor’s claims against Consultant or the City,

(@_ Ifthe City's election to terminate this Agreement for default under Sections 10.01
and 10,02 is determined in court of competent jurisdiction to have been wrongful, then in that
‘ase the termination is to be considered to be an early termination under tis Section 10.03,

10,04. Suspension

‘The City may at any time request that Consultant suspend its Services, or any part of
them, by giving 1S days prior written notice to Consultant or upon informal oral, or even no
notice, in the event of emergency. No cost incurred after the effective date of such suspension
are allowed, Consultant must promptly resume its performance of the Services under the same
terms and conditions as stated in this Agreement upon written notice by the CPO and such
{equitable extension of time as may be mutually agreed upon by the CPO and Consultant when
necessary for continuation or completion of Services. Any additional costs or expenses actually
incurred by Consultant asa result of recommencing the Services must be treated in accordance
with the compensation provisions under Article 5 ofthis Agreement

[No suspension ofthis Agreement is permite in the aggregate to exceed a period of 45,
days within any one year ofthis Agreement. If the total number of days of suspension exceeds
45 days, Consultant by written notice tothe City may ret the suspension as an early termination
ofthis Agreement under Section 10.03.

10.05 Right to Onset
(2) __Inconnection with Consultant’ performance under this Agreement, the City may

offset any incremental costs and other damages the City incurs in any or all of the following.
circumstances:

(ifthe City terminates this Agreement for default or any other reason
resulting from Consultant's performance or non-performance;

Gi) ifthe City exercises any ofits remedies under Section 10,02 of this
‘Agreement;

y
)_ifthe City has any credits due or has made any overpayments under this
Agreement.

‘The City may offset these incremental costs and other damages by use of any payment
«due for Services completed before the City terminated this Agreement or before the City
‘exercised any remedies. Ifthe amount offset is insufficient to cover those incremental costs and
‘other damages, Consultant is liable for and must promptly remit tothe City the balance upon
‘writen demand fori This right to offsets in addition to and nota limitation of sny other
remedies available tothe City.

(&)__As provided under § 2-92-380 of the Municipal Code, the City may set off from
‘Consultant's compensation under this Agreement an amount equal tothe amount of the fines and
penalties for each outstanding parking violation complaint and the amount of any debr owed by
Consultan to the City as those italicized terms are defined in the Municipal Code

(©) _Incconnection with any liquidated or unliquidated claims against Consultant, and
without breaching this Agreement, the City may set off portion ofthe price or compensation
<due under this Agreement in an amount equal to the amount of any liquidated or unliquidated
claims thatthe City has against Consultant unrelated to this Agreement. When the City's claims
against Consukant are finally adjudicated in a court of competent jurisdiction or otherwise
‘resolved, the City wil reimburse Consultant tothe exten ofthe amount the City has offset
against this Agreement inconsistently with such determination or resolution.

ARTICLE 11, GENERAL CONDITIONS,

Entire Agreement
A. General

‘Te Consultant acknowledges that this Agreement, and the Exhibits attached to and
incorporated in the Agreement, constitute the entire agreement between the parties and no other
‘warranties, inducements, considerations, promises, or interpretations will be implied or
impressed upon this Agreement that are not expressly addressed in the Agreement

B, No Collateral Inducements

‘The Consultant agres that, except only for those representation, statements, of promises
expressly contained inthis Agreement, and any exhibits attached to this Agreement and
incorporated by reference, no representation, statement or promise, orl or in writing or of any
kind whatsoever, by the ity its officals, agents, or employees, has induced Consultant to enter
into this Agreement or has been relied upon by Consultant inchiding any with reference to: (i)
the meaning, correctness, suitability of completeness of any provisions or requirements of this
‘Agreement; (i) the nature of the Services to be performed; (i) the nature, quantity, quality oF
‘volume of any materials, equipment, labor and other facilities, needed for the performance ofthis

‘Agreement; (iv) the general conditions which may in any way affect this Agreement or its

performance; (v) the compensation provisions of the Agreement; or (i) any other matters,
whether similar to or different from those referred to in (i) through (¥) immediately above,
affecting or having any connection with this Agreement, its negotiation, or its performance.

C. No Omissions

‘The Consultant agrees that it was given ample opportunity and time to review and was
asked by the Cty to review thoroughly all documents forming this Agreement prior to execution
ofthis Agreement in order tht it might request inclusion inthis Agreement of any statement,
representation, promise or provision which it desired or on which it wished to place reliance; that
it did so review those documents; and that either every such statement, representation, promise
provision has been included inthis Agreement or else, if omitted, that Consultant expressly
relinquishes the benefit of any omited statement, representation, promise or provision and is
willing to perform this Agreement in its entirety without claiming reliance thereon or making any
‘ther claim on account of such omission

11.02 Counterparts

This Agreement is comprised of several identical counterparts, each tobe fully executed
by the parties and each to be deemed an original having identical legal effect,

11.03 Amendments

No changes, amendments, modifications or discharge of this Agreement, or any part of it
are valid unless in writing and signed by the authorized agent of Consultant and by the Mayor,
‘Comptroller, and CPO of the City or their respective successors and assigns. The City incurs no
liability for Additional Services without a written amendment to this Agreement under this
Section 11.03,

Whenever under this Agreement Consultant is required to obtain the City's price written
approval, the effect of any approval that may be granted pursuant to Consultant's request is
‘prospective only from the late ofthe date approval was requested othe date on which the
action for which the approval was sought ist begin. In no event is epproval permitted to apply
retroactively to a date before the approval was requested

11.04 Governing Law and Jurisdiction

‘This Agreement will be governed as to performance and interpretation in accordance with
the laws of the State of Hlinois. ‘The Consultant ierevocably submits itself to the original
jurisdiction of those courts located within the County of Cook, State of Tinos, with regard to
‘any controversy arising out of, relating to, or in any way concerning the execution or
performance ofthis Agreement. The Consultant agrees tht service of process on the Consultant
‘may be made, tthe option of the City, either by registered or certified mail addressed tothe
applicable office as provided for in this Agreement, by egistered or certified mail addressed to
the office actually maintained by the Consultant, of by personal delivery on any officer, director,

9
‘or managing or general agent ofthe Consultant, If any action is brought by the Consultant
against the City concerning this Agreement, the action wll only be brought in those cours
located within the County of Cook, State of Iino.

11.05 Severability

If any provision ofthis Agreement is held or deemed tobe or is in fact invalid, illegal,
inoperative or unenforceable as applied in any particular case in any jurisdiction or in all cases
because it conflicts with any other provision or provisions ofthis Agreement or of any
constitution, statute, ordnance, rule of law or public policy, or for any other reason those
circumstances do not have the effect of rendering the provision in question invalid, illegal,
inoperative or unenforceable in any ther case or circumstances, or of rendering any other
provision or provisions in this Agreement invali, illegal, inoperative or unenforceable to any
extent whatsoever. The invalidity, illegality, inoperativeness or unenforceability of any one or
‘more phrases, sentences, clauses or sections in this Agreement doesnot affect the remaining,
portions of this Agreement or any part of it

11.06 Interpretation

‘Any headings ofthis Agreement ae for convenience of reference only and do not define
‘or limit its provisions. Words of any gender will be deemed and construed to include correlative
‘words of the other gender. Words importing the singular number will include the plural number
and vice versa unless the context otherwise indicates. All references to any exhibit or document
will be deemed to include all supplements and/or amendments to any exhibits or documents
centered into in accordance with the terms and conditions of such exhibit or document. All
references to any person ot entity will be deemed to include any person or entity succeeding to
the right, duties, and obligations of such persons or entities in accordance with the terms and.
‘conditions ofthis Agreement,

11.07 Contract Documents

In the event of any inconsistency or conflict between the terms and conditions of Articles
| through 13 ofthis Agreement and the Exhibits of this Agreement, the Articles ofthis
‘Agreement will prevail

11.08 Assigns

All ofthe terms and conditions ofthis Agreement will be binding upon and inure tothe
‘benefit ofthe partes to this Agreement and their spective legal representatives, successors,
transferees and assigns.

11.09 Cooperation
Consultant must ata times cooperate fully wit the City and act inthe City’s best

interests. Ifthis Agreement is terminated for any reason oi i isto expire on its own terms,
‘Consultant must make every effort to ensure an ordery transition to another provider of the
Services, if any, orderly demobilization ofits own operations in connection with the Services,
uninterrupted provision of Services during any transition period and must otherwise comply with
the reasonable requests and requirements ofthe Department in connection with the termination
(or expiration

1110 Walver
"Nothing in this Agreement authorizes the waiver of a requirement or condition contrary

to law or ordinance or that would esult in or promote the violation of any federal, state or local
Jaw or ordinance.

‘Whenever under this Agreement the City by @ proper authority waives Consultant's
performance in any respect or waives a requirement or condition to either the Citys or
Consultant's performance, the waiver so granted, whether express or implied, only applies to the
Particular instance and is nota waiver forever or for subsequent instances ofthe performance,
‘requirement or condition. No such waiver is a modification of this Agreement regardless ofthe
numberof times the City may have waived the performance, requirement or condition. Such
waivers must be provided to Consultant in writing

1 Independent Contractor

(2) This Agreement is not intended to and does not constitute, create, give rise to, or
‘otherwise recognize a joint venture, partnership, corporation or other formal business
association or organization of any kind between Consultant and the City. ‘The rights and the
obligations of the parties are only those set forth in tis Agreement. Consultant must perform
under this Agreement as an independent contractor and not as a representative, employee, agent,
or partner of the City

(©) This Agreement is between the City and an independent contractor and, if
‘Consultant is an individual, nothing provided for under this Agreement constitutes or implies an
employer-employee relationship such that:

()__The City wil not be liable under or by eason ofthis Agreement forthe
payment of any compensation award or damages in connection with the Consultant
performing the Services required under this Agreement,

i) Consultant isnot entitled to membership in any City Pension Fund,
‘Medical Insurance Program, Group Dental Program, Group Vision Care, Group Life
Insurance Program, Deferred Income Program, vacation, sick leave, extended sick leave,
‘or any other benefits ordinarily provided to individuals employed and paid through the
regular payrolls of the City.

OUP

‘The City is not required to deduct or withhold any taxes, FICA o other deductions from any
compensation provided to Consultant.

11.12 Electronic Ordering and Invoicing

a
‘The Consultant shall cooperate in good faith with the City in implementing electronic
‘ordering and invoicing, including but not limited to catalogs, purchase onders, releases, and
invoices. Consultant shall accep electronic purchase orders and releases upon request ofthe
‘Chief Procurement Officer. Consultant shall provide the Cty electronic catalogs, copies of|
Invoices and other electronic documents upon request. The electronic ordering and invoice
documents shall be ina format spevified by the City and transmitted by an electronic means
specified by the City. Such electronic means may include, but are not limited to, disks, e-mail,
EDI, FTP, web sites, and third party electronic services, The Chief Procurement Officer reserves
the right to change the document format andr the means of transmission upon writen notice to
‘the Consultant. Consultant shall ensure that the essential information, as determined by the
Chief Procurement Officer, in the electronic document, corresponds to that information
submited by the Consultant in its paper documents. The electronic documents shall be in
‘addition to paper documents required by this contract, however, by written notice tothe
Consultant, the Chief Procurement Officer may deem any or all ofthe electronic ordering and
invoice documents the official documents and/or eliminate the requirement for paper ordering
and invoice documents,

113: Partic

bby Other Local Government Agencies

Other local government agencies may be eligible opatcipt in this Agreement
pursuant tothe terms and conditions ofthis Agreement ifsuch agencies are autherized, bylaw or
their governing bodies, to execute such purchases, and i'such authorization isallowed bythe
City of Chicago's Chief Procorement Officer, and if such purchases have no net adverse effect
«on the City of Chicago, and result in no diminished services from the Consultant tothe City’s
User departments pursuant to such purchases. Examples of such Local Government Agencies
are: Board of Education, Chicago Park Distt, City Colleges of Chicago, Chicago Transit
‘Authority, Chicago Housing Authority, Chicago Board of Elections, Metropolitan Pier and
Exposition Authority (MeCormick Place, Navy Per), andthe Municipal Cours, Said purchases
shall be made upon the issuance ofa purchase order directly from the Local Government
‘Agency. The City will not be responsible foe payment of any amounts owed by anyother Local
Government Agencies, and will have no liability for the acts or omissions of anyother Local
Government Agency

11.14 No Third Party Beneficiaries
‘The parties agree that this Agreement is solely forthe benefit of the patie and nothing,

herein is intended to create any thed party beneficiary rights For Subcontractors or other third
partes.

ARTICLE 12. NOTICES
Notices provided for herein, unless expressly provided for otherwise inthis Agreement,
will be in writing and may be delivered personally or by placing inthe United States mail fist
class and certified, return receipt requested, with postage prepaid and addressed as follows:

Ito the City: Department of Finance
33 North LaSalle Stret, 6 floor
Chicago, Iinois 60602
Atention: City Comptroller

Department of Law
Room 610, City Hall

121 North LaSalle Steet
Chicago, Ilinois 60602
Attention: Corporation Counsel

With Copies to: Department of Procurement Services
‘Room 403, City Hall
121 North LaSalle Street
Chicago, tlinois 60602
‘Attention: Chief Procurement Officer

Ito Consultant: RSM McGladrey, Ine
‘One South Wacker Dr, Ste.800
Chicago,IL 60606-3392
‘Attention: Lary W. Schaedel

Changes inthe above-referenced addresses must be in writing and delivered in accordance with
the provisions ofthis Article 12.

Notices delivered by mail will be deemed received three (3) days after mailing in accordance
‘with this Section. Notices delivered personally will be deemed effective upon receipt.

ARTICLE 13. AUTHORITY
13.01 City Authority

‘This Agreement is entered into by the City in accordance withthe Municipal Purchasing
‘Act for cities of $00,000 or more population, as contained in 65 TLCS 5/8-10-1 et seq, a5
amended, and with the Municipal Code of Chicago, as amended.

13.02 Consultant's Authority

Execution ofthis Agreement by the Consultant is authorized by a resolution of its Board
of Directors, ifa corporation, and the signature(s) of each person signing on behalf of the
‘Consultant have been made with complete an full authority to commit the Consultant to all
terms and conditions ofthis Agreement, including each and every representation, certification
and warranty contained herein, including without limitation such representations, certifications

a
and warranties collectively atached to this Agreement and incorporated by reference. If this
‘Agreement is executed by an officer other than the chief executive officer of the Consultant, the
Consultant will provide a cerified resolution ofits Board of Directors, if corporation, granting
such officer specific authority to sign this Agreement or general authority to sign agreements of
this nature and scope.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City andthe Consultant have executed this Agreement on the
date frst set forth above, at Chicago, Minos.

CITY OF CHICAGO

By.

RSM MCGLADREY, INC

resident (OF Authorized Officer)

Title_Tom Dobosenski, Executive Vice President, National Consulting

anesed ¥- OTA

Corporate Secretary

Subscnbed and sworn o before me this 27 day or June, 2007
by Tom Dobosenski EVP _ President and _R. Peter Fontaine

Corporate Secretary of _RSM McGladrey, Inc.

My Commission Expires Gane Bl, 201

OMBEALY L. THiEDE|
Sonn nme meson

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Cty and the Consultant have executed this Agreement onthe
date first set forth above, ai Chicago, Hlinois.

CITY OF CHICAGO.

By

Mayor
Comptroller —

Chief Procurement Officer

RSM MCGLADREY, INC

President (OF Authorized Officer)

Title_Tor 2 Vice President, National Consulting

neses oy ALTA

‘Corporate Secretary

Subscribed and sworn to before me this 27% day or June, 2007

by _Tom Dobosenski EVP President and_R. Peter Fontaine

‘Corporate Secretary of _RSM McGladrey, inc.

ACERT PRC NEO

KIMBERLY (. et

My Commission Expires: ax 3/, 201
EXHIBIT 1

SCOPE OF SI

ERVICES & COMPENSATION SCHEDULE
‘SCOPE OF SERVICES

“The Consultant may submit a Proposal in response to @ Task Onder Request“TOR" for one or mare ofthe
following Financial Service Categories.

Management Consulting

The selected Consultant will sist the City in asessng current business practices and systems by
researching curent processes and identifying areas tobe remedied, enhanced of refined. In aio, the
consultants may assist in evaluating potest alternatives, designing new systems and formulating an
implementation plan as well as developing follow-up procedures to ensure tha the plan's objectives are
accomplished. Assistance during the implementation phase ofthe plan may be requested,

Management consulting may include: ooking at ways the City curently does things nd advise the Cty
‘on best practices to improve operations; isk ashessments eviews of billings, billing practices, and
‘Sidding practices; and operational reviews of various City departments and programs.

2. Actuarial Services

The selected Consultant will provide actual services in accordance with apliable standards
established by the AICPA andthe Actuarial Standards Board for ealulting or reviewing reserves, which
‘may include incured but not reported (IBN) obligations with respect o benefits management, halts
plan rate making, rsk management, Tor Liability, Workers Compensation, OPEB Liability, and other
‘eserves. The frm will perform the callation based on dat provided by the Cty. Presentations in
‘iting to City management substantiating results ofthe calculations will be required as well s what
Reserve Estimation methods applied and assumptions used.

3. Tax Support Services

‘The selected Consultant wll provide advisory services related to tax maters which may include benefits,
‘compensation, pension, tex-exempt financings, arbitrage rebate calculations on tax-exempt bonds, or
‘othe ses

4 Benefite Consulting

‘The selected Constant wll consult with City management inthe area of benefits programs. The City
provides benefits fr approximately 37,000 employees and 20,000 retires and their dependents. The City
as been aggressive in attempring to reduce the cost of providing employee benefits. The City ray we
<onsltants to asit in the review of benefit cost structures, examine transactions, provide subrogation
Services, and perform tilzation review services fr heath plans and horptal case management services
COMPENSATION SCHEDULE

For the designated Service Category below, the Consutant shal provide all Services described inthe Scope of Services forthe fully loaded
hourly rates se forth below.

Service Categories: Management Consulting, Actuarial, Tax Support and Benefits Consulting Services

Fully-loaded hourly rates include salary, overhead, payroll burden and profit. Al direct costs and reimbursable expenses including travel
and subcontractor fes ae subject tothe approval ofthe City Comptroller and Corporation Counsel

SEF | Year 1 307 | Year B 2007-00 | Var 320082009 —] Vear 4 2009-010
ours | Fally Loaded Fry Londed Hoarty | Flly Loaded | Fully Londed
Hourly Rate Range_| Hourly Rate Range_| Hourly Rate Range
id Per Hour Sid, Per Howr | Su Per Hour
Farmer 10% S500 SERS S763
Senior Manager/Director | 10% S500 S059 FTES
Manager FI S500 susie | __ sna
[Supervisor NA NA NA NAA NA
rien] Saf aise | S10o-s1a800 | — SISTass1aRa S70 $1057
‘AdminisraivsClieaT | 10% $75.00 $7875 —_
| Support |
borer NA WA Wa NA Wa
Tob Chaitin] % Total | Year S0103011 [Year 70112012 [Year 7 20127013]
Hours” | Fully loaded | Fally Leaded Hourly_| Pally Loaded
Rate Range Hourly ate Range |
Si, Per Hour Sid Per Hoar
Farin sua |
Senior ManageriDirecior | 10% S26 335.98 — |
‘Manager 20% $273.49 $287. =
Superveer NA “NA NA
Profesional Sif 30% | Sisipe-sioaas—|—Siissso0aai | siarsi-sn1aa
‘Adminitate/Clereat “10% soa S100
Support
Omer BIN Nk Nx Na
— L

EXHIBIT 2
TASK ORDERS
EXHIBIT 2
TASK ORDERS

‘The City Comptroller and Corporation Counsel will provide Consultant with abasic Task
(Order form after the Agreement is awarded.

All Services must be authorized by a writen Task Order. Consultant acknowledges and
agrees that the City is under no obligation to issue any Task Orders for Services.

Upon the writen spproval ofthe City Comptroller and Corporation Counsel, the
Department will isve a Task Order Request specifically referencing this Agreement, identifying,
‘the project, and setting forth the Services to be performed pursuant to the proposed Task Order
‘and a desired completion date. Consultant must respond by proposing a time schedule, budget,
deliverables anda list of key personnel, all of which must conform tothe terms of the Task
(Order Request and the terms and conditions ofthis Agreement. Consultant must not respond to
any Task Order Request not approved in writing by the City Comptroller and Corporation
Counsel. Costs associated with the preparation of Task Orders are not compensable under this
‘Agreement and the City isnot lable for any additional costs,

Following Consultants submission ofthe Task Order, the City Compt
Corporation Counsel andthe Chief Procurement Officer will review the Task Order and may
elect to approve it, reject it or use it as bass for further negotiations with Consultant regarding
the scope ofthe project and the project completion date. Ifthe City and Consultant negotiate the
‘cope of the project and the project completion date, Consultant must submit a revised Task
(Order (based upon such negotiations) othe City for approval

‘All Task Orders are subject tothe approval ofthe Chief Procurement Officer and no Task
‘Order will become binding upon the City until iis approved, in writing, by the Chief
Procurement Officer. Absent approval of a Task Order by the Chief Procurement Officer, the
City will not be obligated to pay or have any liability, under any theory of recovery (whether
under the Agreement, a law or in equity), to Consultant for any Services provided by Consultant
pursuant toa Task Order, or etherwise.

Ifthe Services to be performed under a Task Order are to be funded from a fund other than the
fund identified by the fund number set forth inthis Agreement, such change in funding must be
approved by the Chief Procurement Officer and the Comptroller prie to the issuance of any
‘Task Order funded through such fund, andthe applicable fund number must be included in the
‘Task Order form provided to Consultant.

‘Notice to Proceed

Consultant will commence its Services immediately upon receipt of an executed Notice to
Proceed issued by the City Comptroller and Corporation Counselor his authorized designee.
EXHIBIT 3

INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS AND EVIDENCE OF INSURANCE.
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
Department of Finance
Department of Law
Financial Services
Specification No: 42504

‘The Contractor must provide and maintain at Contractor's own expense, until Contract completion and during
the time period following completion if Contractor is required to retum and perform any additional work, the
insurance coverages and requirements specified below, insuring all operations related to the Contract.
A. _ INSURANCE TO BE PROVIDED
1) Workers Compensation and Employers Liability
Workers Compensation Insurance, as prescribed by applicable law covering
provide work under this Contract and Employers Liability coverage wit
$100,000 each accident, iliness or disease.

2) Commercial General Liability (Primary and Umbreta)

I employees who are to
limits of not less than

‘Commercial General Liability Insurance or equivalent with limits of not less than

‘$2,000,000 per occurrence for bodily injury, personal injury, and property damage liability. Coverages
must include the following: All premises and operations, products/completed operations, separation of
insureds, defense, and contractual liability (with no limitation endorsement). The City of Chicago is to
bbe named as an addtional insured on a primary, non-contributory basis for any liability arising directly
or indirectly from the work.

Subcontractors performing Services for Consultant must maintain limits of not less than $1,000,000
withthe same terms in this subsection

3) Automobile Liability (Primary and Umbrella)
When any motor vehicles (owned, non-owned and hired) are used in connection with work to be
performed, the Contractor must provide Automobile Liability Insurance with limits of not less than
$1,000,000 per occurrence for bodily injury and property damage. The City of Chicago isto be named
‘as an additional insured on a primary, non-contributory bass

4) Professional Liability

‘When any sccountants, auditors, benefits consultants, budget consultants, bookkecpers, financial
consultants, management consultants, risk management consultants or ‘any other professional
consultants perform work in connection with this Contract, Professional Liability Insurance covering
acts, erors or omissions must be maintained with limits of not less than $2,000,000, Coverage must
include contractual liability. When policies are renewed or replaced, the policy retroactive date must
coincide with, or precede, start of work on the Contract. A claims-made policy which is not renewed
or replaced must have an extended reporting period of two (2) years

‘Subcontractors performing Services for Consultant must maintain limits of not less than $1,000,000
‘With the same terms in this subsection
5) Valuable Papers

When any media, data, financial reports, records, audit and any other documents are produced or used
under this Contract, Valuable Papers Insurance must be maintained in an amount to insure against any
loss whatsoever, and must have limits suficient to pay forthe re-creation and reconstruction of such
records

6) Property

‘Consultant is responsible forall loss or damage to City property at full replacement cost as a result of
the Agreement

‘Consultant is responsible forall loss or damage to personal property (including materials, equipment,
‘tools and supplies) owned, rented or used by Contractor.

B, ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.

‘The Contractor must furnish the Cty of Chicago, Department of Procurement Services, City Hall, Room 403,
121 North LaSalle Sireet, Chicago, Il 60802, original Certificates of Insurance, or such similar evidence, 10
be in force on he date ofthis Contract, and Renewal Certificates of Insurance, or such similar evidence if the
coverages have an expiration or renewal date occurring during the term ofthis Coniract. The Contractor
‘must submit evidence of insurance on the City of Chicago Insurance Certificate Form (copy attached) or
‘¢quivalen prior to Contract award. The recept of any certificate doesnot constitute agreement bythe City
tha the insurance requirements in the Contract have been fully met or that the insurance policies indicated on
the cerficate are in compliance with all Contract requirements. The failure of the Cty to obtain certificaes
‘or other insurance evidence from Contracor is not a waive by the City of any requirements forthe
Contractor to obiain and maintain the specified coverages. The Contractor shall advise all insurers of the
Contract provisions regarding insurance. Nor-conforming insurance does not relieve Contractor of the
‘obligation fo provide insurance as specified herein. Nonfulflmen of the insurance conditions may constitute
4 violation of the Contract, and the City retains the righ to stop work until proper evidence of insurance is
provided. or the Contract may be terminated.

‘The insurance must provide for 60 days prior writen notice to be given to the City in the event coverage is
substantially changed, canceled, or non-renewed.

‘Any deductibles or self insured retentions on referenced insurance coverages must be bome by Contractor.

Contractor hereby waives and agrees to require their insurers to waive thei
City of Chicago, its employees, elected officials, agents, or representatives.

‘The coverages and limits furnished by Contractor in no way limit the Contractors liabilities and
responsibilities specified within the Contract or by law.

‘Any insurance or self insurance programs maintained by the City of Chicago do not contribute with insurance
provided by the Contractor under the Contract.

‘The required insurance to be carried is not limited by any limitations expressed in the indemnification
snguage inthis Contract or any limitation placed on the indemnity in this Contract given as a matter of law.

If Contractor is a joint venture or a limited liability company the insurance policies must name the joint
venture or limited liability company as «named insured.

The Contractor must require all subcontractors to provide the insurance required herein, or Contractor may
provide the coverages for subcontractors. All subcontractors are subject to the same insurance requirements of
‘Contractor unless otherwise specified inthis Contact

If Contractor of subcontractors desires ad
responsible for the acquisition and cost.

tional coverages, the party desiring the additional coverages is

‘The City of Chicago Risk Management Department maintains the right to modify, delete, alter or change these
requirements
MARSH CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE ===)

28 carrae
‘i Ranaicy Cregnatgranh om Fax 129482015 | Say +
eoxesosvasuorne Tr nce AMEReeAN SURANCE COMPANY
— 2 ST PAU FIRE & WARNE INSURANCE COMPANY
Saaresa iy, Cw MUTY NSURANCE CO OF NORTH AMERICA

Rares Oy 0 ets

2” ws REINSURANCE COMPANY

SORT

pl gee aogier

RTT eooEa sever ]psovoe Toe
| 0058
| a0.

me)
| i)
| MSe freeones |S __NA|

o (ora (anata [050068 | cca cnr 18RD

a
Ea 3
] aap anczaen TB
t — | ———
Lt alanl joao (asciar — lasers
Se acreraro or [saever

Ja | Brews fmceetror0(cA) lesewor |

| asremeet [)ma[reueron pn (sev

[oon Pray eT svar — evs — Spey |

|
|

ha

[Serre ER —

Sean
Frere Courier

[Oreaga cas

[Gof Capo ine or Aol nares hens ay appar SM Vala Panes Coveape

Wisse Sates

CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE oe

‘oviaoT

COOTER
‘Aon Insurance Servic

300 South Wacker Drive, Suite 700

Chicago, IL 60606

2No CONTERS NO RIGHTS UPON THE CENTINCATE HOLDER. TMS
‘arringaTe des WoT Ah ErEN® OM ATER THE COVERAGE
‘COMPANES AFF ORSING COVERAGE

‘A Arch Speclty Insurance Compar

RSM McGladrey, inc. =
3600 American Blvd West, Third Floor ra
Bloomington, MN 55431-4502 ¢

°

COVERAGES

Se oe See an ne Sir
feneccnennar ——
econ med |
te

Fy seo are .
=r eT =|

beoeane zi

. oa —e
1 [Prctesoratatity merce — | ersoonnrce | ororer | ororee | amatrageon | s2000000

TERETE OLDER ae —— =

Cty of cricago
Procurement Deparment
121N. LaSalle, Sute 403
(Chicago,

ort Sipe

EXHIBIT 4

TASK ORDER SPECIAL CONDITIONS REGARDING MINORITY
BUSINESS ENTERPRISE COMMITMENT AND WOMEN’S
BUSINESS ENTERPRISE COMMITMENT
RSM McGladrey

Writer's Direct Line

312.634.4729
snc
October 10,2007 Sei aime

Ms, Barbara Lumpkin

Chief Procurement Officer
Department of Procurement Services
Room 403

121 North LaSalle Steet

Chicago, IL 60602

Re: MBE/WBE Commitment
Specification 42504, ContracPO 14569, Vendor 506240214.

Dear Ms. Lumpkin:
Please be advised that, if selected to provide services, RSM McGladrey, Ine. commits to
achieve at least the minimum MBE goal of 16.9% participation, and the minimum WBE
Participation goal of 4.5% of the amounts billed and received by RSM for services
performed under the above referenced specification (#42504),

Additionally, as required, RSM commits to complete and submit all applicable forms

including, but not limited to, schedules C-3 and D-3 pertaining to the use of MBE"s and
WBE’ for its work

Ifyou have any questions, or require additional information, please advise,

Very truly yours,
RSM McGladrey

i, w/oa

Larry W. Schaedel
Managing Director

Lwsaw

PREF ET TE ee NTE Re

2
$
ce: Fie $
s
:
TASK ORDER SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MINORITY BUSINESS
ENTERPRISE COMMITMENT AND WOMEN BUSINESS ENTERPRISE
COMMITMENT
(OIBE/WBE Profesional Services)

Polley and Terms

tis the policy ofthe City of Chicago that Local Businesses certified as Minority Business Enterprises (MBE) and
‘Women Busines Enterprises (WBE) in accordance with Section 2-92-420 et sea ofthe Municipal Code of|

(Chicago and Regulations Governing Centfiation of Minority and Women-owned Businesses, and all other
Regulations promalgeted under the aforementioned sections ofthe Municipal Code shall have the maximum
‘opportunity to participate fly inte performance ofthis agreement. Therefor, the contractor shall not
<iscriminate against any person or business on the bass of race, color, national crgin ot Sex, and shal take
‘affirmative action to ensure that women and minority businesses shall hve the maximum opportunity to compete
for and perform subcontracts for supplies or services,

‘The Chief Procurement Officer has ertabished a goal of awarding no les than 25% of the annual doll
struction contracts to ceriled MBEs and 8% of the annual dollar value of all non

Failure o carry out the commitments and policies set forth herein shall constitute a material breach ofthe contrat
snd may result inthe termination of the contractor such remedy as the ity of Chicago deems appropriate.

Accordingly, the contractor commits to expend atleast the following percentages of the total contac price
(inausive of any and all modificaions and amendments), if warded, for contract participation by MBES and
Wats

MBE Contract Gos: 169
‘WBE Contract Goal: 43

“The commitments met by the contractor's status as an MBE or WBE, or bya joint venture with one or more
cetifid MBEs or WBEs that wll perform work on the project, of by subeontracting a portion of the work 1 one
‘rmore MBEs or WBEs, or bythe purchase of materials wed inthe performance ofthe contract rom one oF
‘nore MBEs ot WBEs, of by the indirect parcipaton of MBEs or WBE in other aspects ofthe contractor's
‘business (but no dollar of sch indirect MBE of WBE participation shal be credited more than once against a
contractors MBE or WBE commiament with respect 1 ll contaets of such contrat), o by any combination of

the foregoing.

[Note: MBEAWBE participation goals are separate and those businesses certified with the City of Chicago
{as both an MBE and WBE shall not be credited more than once against a contractors MBE or WBE
‘commitment in the performance ofthe contract.

[As noted above, the contractor may meet all or part ofthis commitment by contracting with MBEs or WBE for
the provision of goods or services not directly related tothe performance ofthis contact. However, ia
‘determining the manner of MBE/WBE participation, the contractor shall frst consider involversent of
MBES/WBES as joint venture parmners, subcontractors, and suppliers of goods and services directly related tothe
performance of his contract. Inappropriate cases, the Chef Procurement ict wil require the contactor to
‘demonstrate the specifi efforts undertaken o involve MBEs and WBES indirect participation inthe performance
ofthis contact

The contractor also may wit prior approval of the Chef Procurement Officer or designee, mee al or pat, of

this commitment trough credits received pursuant to Section 2-92-530 of the Munieipl Code of Chicago for the
‘voluntary use of MBEs or WBES in private sector projets,

Page 1 of
m1,

SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MBE/WBE COMMITMENT

Definitions

“Minority Business Enterprise” or “MBE” means a firm swarded certification as a minority owned and
controlled business in accordance with City Ordinances and Regulation.

“Women Business Enterprise” or “WBE* meas firm svarded cetifiation ata women owned and controlled
busines in accordance with City Ordinances and Regulation.

“Directory” means the Directory of Centifed “Disadvantaged Busines Enterprises;"*Minority Busines
Enterprises” and “Women Business Enterprises” maintained and published bythe Contract Compliance
‘Administrator, The Dicecory identifies Gms tat have ben certified as MBLEs and WDE, and ncloes both the
dat oftheir last certitication and the area of specialty in which they have been certified. Contractor are
responsible for verifying the curentcetfiation stats ofall proposed MBE and WBE fms,

“area of Speciatty” moans the description ofan MBE or WBE firm's busines which has been determined bythe
(Chie Procurement Officer tobe most refective of the MBE or WBE firms claimed specialty or experts. Each
MBE/WBE leterof certification contains a description of the firm's Area of Specialty. This information is also
‘contained inthe Directory. Credit toward this contracts MBE and WE participation goals shal be limited to the
utcipation of fem performing within thei Are of Specialy

NOTICE: The Department of Procurement Services doesnot make any representation concerning the ability
of any MBE/WBE to perform work within their Area of Speciahy, Mis the responsiblity of all
contractors to determine the capability and capacity of MBES/WBEs to saisfacily perform the
work proposed
“Joint Venture” means an association of two or more businesses o cary out single business enterprise for
profit, and for which purpose they combine ther expertise, propery, capital, efforts, skill and knowledge.
Contractors may develop joint venture agreements as an instrument wo provide participation by MBE and WBEs
Sn conzat work

“Contract Compliance Administrator” means the officer appointed pursuant to Section 2-92-490 of the
Municipal Code of Chicago.

Joint Ventures

[Bidders may develop joint venture agreements as an instrument to provide participation by centfied MBEs and
\WBES in contract work. A joint venture seeking to be credited for MBE and/or WBE participation may be
formed among MBE andlor WBE firms or between an MBE andlor WBE frm and a non-MBEWBE firm,

‘A joint verre i eligible for MBE ot WBE credit ifthe MBEYWBE joint vente parners share inthe
‘ownership, contol and management responsibilies, ks and profits ofthe Jot venture, andar responsible for
® clearly defined portion of work o be performed, in proportion withthe MBE andr WBE ovnership
pereenage.

Notice: The City requires that, whenever ajoint venture is proposed asthe prime contractor, each join venture
partner must separately sign the proposal tothe City, in the pages captioned, TO BE EXECUTED BY A
CORPORATION; TO BE EXECUTED BY A PARTNERSHIP, andor TO BE EXECUTED BY A SOLE
PROPRIETOR, as applicable

(Counting MBE/WBE Participation Toward the Contract Goals

‘The inclusion of any MBE or WBE inthe contractors MBE/WBE Uslization Plan shall not conclusively
establish the contactors right to fll MBBE/WBE credit for that firm's participation in the contract. Once an
MBE or WBE Is determined tobe eligible in accordance with these rues, the ttal dollar value ofthe week

Page 2 of 9

‘SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MBE/WBE COMMITMENT

awarded tothe MBE or WBE may be counted toward the MBE or WBE goal excep as indicated below:

‘The Chief Procurement Officer eserves the ight to deny or limit MBEYWBE credit to the contractor where any
MBE or WBE is found to be engaged insubstantial wabcontractng or pass-through activites with other. A
contractor may coun! toward its MBE and WBE goals only expenltires to firms that perform a commercially
tefl funtion. A firm Is considered to perform a commercially useful fusction when Ii responibe forthe
perfomance ofa lealy defined and distinc element of work and is carrying outs responsbiities by actualy
Performing, managing, and supervising the work involved. To determine whether afin is performing a
‘commercially useful function, the Chief Procurement Officer shall evaluate the amount of work subcontracted,
industry practices, and other relevant factor. The amount of MBE/WBE participation credit shall be based pon
‘an analysis by the Chief Procurement Officer ofthe specifi dues that wil be performed bythe MBE or WBE.
Eich MBE/WBE shall be expected to actually perform a substantial (i.e, more than eighty-five perent (85%))
portion ofthe work contemplated for it by any subcontract or agreement trough the we of its oom employees and
equipment.

Requested information may include, without imitation: (1) specifi information conceming brokers fees
sndior commissions; (2) intended sub-suppliers or ater sources of goods and/or services and (3) specific
Financial or ether risks to be sumed bythe MBE/WBE.

[MBEs and WBES who have been certified as “brokers shall no longer be considered eligible to patcipate for
y consideration of MBE or WBE credit on contracts awarded by the City in 1993 and thereafe, unl farther

‘A joint venture may count toward its MBE or WBE goal the dolar value ofthe actual work performed by the
[MBE and/or WBE Joint venture partner with its ovm resources.

‘The Chief Procurement Officer reserves the right to disallow goal credit forall any portion, of work
performed by an MBE or WBE joint venturer based on evaluations of non-compliance with these Special
Conditions or any other City, State and/or Federal regulation.

Res is 1 or Waiver of MBI 5

‘The following Regulations set forth the standards 1o be used in determining whether or nota redetion or waiver
ofthe MBE/WBE commitment goals of a particular contac is appropriate. I bider or proposer determines

that itis unable to meet the MBE and/or WBE goa! percentage ona City of Chicago contract, a writen request for
the eduction or waive ofthe commitment must be included inthe bid or proposal.

‘The writen request for reduction or waiver ftom the commitment must bein the form of a signed petition for
tant of relief fom the MBE/WBE percentaget submited on the bidser/poposers letterhead, and must
demonstrate that ll equitedeffors as St forth in this document were taken to secure eligible Minority and
‘Women Business Enterprises to meet the commitments, The Chief Procurement Oise or designee shall
<erermine whether the request forthe reduction or waiver wil be granted.

Biddersiproposers willbe considered responsive tothe terms and conditions of these Regulations if
waiver request and proof of notification foam asist agency Is submitted atthe time of bid/proposal
‘opening. Once the bids have been opened, the lowes responsive and responsible bidder so deemed by the Chief
Procurement Officer or authorized designee will hve no more than fourien (14) calendar days to submit to the
Depariment of Procurement complete docimentaton that adequately addresses the conditions for waiver
<escrted herein. Proposers responding to Request for Proposals (RFPs) who have been identified a8 «short
listed candidate andior a prospective awardee willbe given a designated time allowance, bu a0 more than
srtcen (14) calendar days to submit to the Department of Procurement Servicer complete documentation
‘that adequately addresses the conditions for waiver described herein. Respondents to Request for
Information and or Qualiieations (RFI/RFQs) deemed by the Chief Procurement Officer or authorized
‘designee to be the most responsive and responsible shal submit documentation that adequately addresses

Page 3 09

the conditions for waiver described herein during negotiations. Failure to submit documentation sufficient to
‘support the waiver request will use ie bid/proposal tobe found non-responsive by the Chief Procurement
(Oicer, andthe bidroposl wil be rejected In such cases the remedies to be taken by the Chief Procurement
Officer, in his discretion, may include, but are nt limited o, forteiture of bid deposit; negotiating with the next
lowest bidder/proporer; or re-adverising the bid/roposa. Al bidder/proposers are encouraged to submit al
required documents at the ime of bid opening to expedite the contrat award

Directindirect Participation

Each ofthe following elements must be present inorder to determine whether or not such a reduction or waver is
appropriate

1. The bidderproposer has documented the unsuccessful solettion for either suboontactrs or joint
venture partners oft least SO% (ort Feast five when there are more than eleven certified firms inthe
‘commodity ara) ofthe sproprat cerified MBEUWBE firms to perform any director indirect work
‘Mentfied or relates tothe advertised bi/propoal. Direct priciption involves subcontracting a portion
ofthe goodsiservies specifically required inte bid/proposal. Indirect participation isthe subcontracting
‘of goodsservices not specifically related to the performance ofthis contact. Documentation must include
buts not necessarily mite

A deuiled statement of efforts to identify and select portions of work idensfied inthe bid
solication fr subcontracting to certied MBE/WBE firms;

b, —Alising ofall MBE/WBE firms consacted that includes:

(1) Names, address and telephone numbers of MBE/WBE firms solicited;
@) Date and time of contact
GB) Method of contac (writen, telephone, facsimile et)

©. Copies of ters or any other evidence of mailing that substaates outreach to MBE/WBE
sendors that includes:

(1) Project identification and leation;

@) _Classifistioncommodity of work items for which quotations were sought;

{@) Date item ad location for acceptance of subcontractor bid proposals;

() Detailed statement which summarizes direct negotiations with eppropiate MBEWBE
firms for specific portion ofthe work and indicates why negotiations were unsuccessful,

(5) _Atfamaton that good fut efforts have been demonstrated by choosing subcontracting
‘opportunities likely to achieve MBE/WBE goals by not imposing any limiting conditions
‘which were ot mandatory for all sueonractors; or denying the benefits ordinarily
conferred on MBE/WBE subcontractor forthe type of work that was solicited.

‘OR

2. Subcontractor participation wil be deemed excessively costly when the MBE/WBE subcontractor
proposal exceed the averge price quoted by more than twenty percent (20%). In order to establish that a
Subcontract quotes excessively costly, the bidder/proposer must provide he fllowing information:

8 A detailed statement ofthe work identified for MBE/WBE participation for which the
‘bidde/proposer asserts the MBE/WBE quote(s) were excessively cosy (in excess of 20%
higher

(2) Alsting of al potential subcontractors contcted for «quotation on that work item;

@) Prices quoted for the subcontract in question by all such potential subcontractors for that
work item,

Page 40f 9
vw

Other documentation which demonstrates othe satisficton ofthe Chief Procurement Officer tht
the MBE/WBE proposal are excessively costly even though notin excess of 20% higher than
the average price quoted, This determination will be based on factors that include, bu are not
limited othe following:

(1) The Cites eximate forthe work under a specific sebeontract

2) The bidder/proposers own estimate forthe work under the subcontract;

G)__Anaverage ofthe bona fie prices quoted forthe subcontract

(Demonstrate increase in otber contact cost at result of subcontracting othe M/WBE
corother frm,

Assist Agency Participation
Every waver and/or reduction request mus inchde evidence that the bidderproposer has provided timely notice

‘ofthe need for subcontractors to an appropiate association ssist agency representative ofthe MBE/WBE.
business community

‘The notice requirement of hia Section wil Be sateied if biddevproposer contact last one ofthe
sssocitions on Attachment A when the prime contractor seeks 2 waiver or reduction inthe utilization goals
‘Attachment B provides the letter format tha prime contractor may we, Proof of naiiaton pir te bid
‘ulbmital (eg certified ml receipt or facsimile transmittal recip) will be required for any Bid/propsal
Submited to be deemed responsive on the date of bid opening, If zemed appropiate, the Chief Procurement
Ofticer or Contract Compliance Officer may contact the assist agency for verification ofnoifiat

iy

1. Ifthe Chit Procurement Officer determines hat a lesser MBE andor WBE percentage standard is
appropriate with respect toa particular contract subject o competitive bidding prior to the bid
‘oliitaions fr such contrat, bid specifications shal include a statement of sch revised standard

2. Therequirements set forth in these Regulation shall not apply where the Chief Procurement Ofieet
<etermines prio tothe bid solicitations that MBE/WBE subcontractor participation is impracticable

‘This may occur whenever the Chief Procurement Officer determines that fr reasons of time, need ndusty
practices of standards not previously known by the Procurement Department administrator, or such other extreme
ircumstances as may be deemed appropiate, such a Waiver isi the best interests ofthe Cty. This determination
‘may be made in connection witha parcular contact, wher before the contract i let forbid, during the bid ot
‘ward proces, before or during negotiation of the contract, or during the performance ofthe contract.

For all notifications required tobe made by biders/proposes, in situations where the Chief Procurement Officer
‘as determined that time i of the essence, documented telephone contact may be substitued for leer contact,

Procedure To Determine Bid Com

‘The following Schedles and described documents consti
submited in sceordance with the guideline tated:

the bidders MBE/WBE proposal, and must be

‘A Schedule C-3 executed bythe MBE/WBE (subcontractor or Joi Venture partner) must be submited by the
bidder/proposer for each MBE/WBE included on thee Schedule D-3 and must accurately detail the work to be
performed by the MBE/WBE and the agreed rates and prices tobe pl

any fly completed and executed Schedule C3 i not submined with the bid/proposa, it must be received by
the Contract Adminstrator within ten (10) days of the bid proposal opening. (All post bid‘proposal submissions

Page sof 8

vu.

‘must have original signatures on all documents). Failure to submit a completed Schedule C.3 in accordance with
{his section shall ene the Cty to deem the bid/propsal non-responsive and therefore eect the bi/proposl,

Letters of Certification,

copy of each proposed MBE/WBE fis current Letter of Ceieation from the City of Chicago must be
Sulomited withthe Bi/propotl

All Lener of Cenifiation sued by the City of Chicago include a satement ofthe MBE/WBE Firms Area of|
Speciahy, The MBE/WBE firms scope of work, as detailed by thei Schedule C:3, must conform to thee stated
‘Area of Specialy

Joint Ventre Agreements

If the bidder'sproposeres MBE/WBE proposal includes the pancipation of an MBE/WBE as joint venture on any
et (ether asthe bidderproposr ora a subcontractor), the bidderproposer mast provide a copy of the joint
venture aprement.

Schedule Dl: Affidevt of MBE/WBE Gos! Implementation Pian

‘Bidders must submit, ogetber withthe bid, a completed Schedule D-3 commiting them the utilization ofeach
ised MBE/WBE frm,

Except in cases where the bddesproposer has submited a request fra complete waiver of o variance frm the
-MBE'WBE commitment in accordance with Section V. herein, the Bidder proposer must commit othe
expenditure of a specifi dollar amount of participation anda specific percentage ofthe total avard amount for
ach MBE/WBE firm included on their Schedule D3. The total dolar commitment to proposed MBEs mus at
“eat equal the MBE goal, and the total dollar commitment to proposed WBE mus at eat equal the WBE goal
[Bidders are rexponsite for calculating the dollar equivalent ofthe MBE and WBE goal as percentages of their
total base bids on the ease of Term Agreements, as percentages ofthe otal estimated usage

All commitments made by the bidders Schedule D3 must conform to those presented inthe submited Schedule
Cot If Schedule C3 is submited ater the bid opening (sce Section VI. A. above, the biddeeproposer may
submit a revised Schedule D:3 (executed and notarized) to conform with the Schedule C:. Except in cases
were substantial and documented jsiieaton is provided, biddes/proposers will not be allowed to reduce the
dollar commitment made to any MBE or WBE in order to achieve conformity between the Schedule C-3 and D-
Fi

Reporting Requirements During The Term atc

‘The Contractor shall, not ltr than thirty (30) ays ffom the award of a contract by the City, execute formal
contract or purchase orders withthe MIs and WBEs included in thei approves MBE/WBE Utlization Plan.
“These writen agreements shall be made available tothe Chief Procurement Officer upon request.

In the case of oe time procurements of supplies with ether single or multiple deliveries tobe performed in lest
than one year from the dat of contract award, an" MBE/WBE Utilization Repor,” indicating final MBE and
WBE payments shall be submited directly tothe Department of Procurement Services so ast assure receipt
cither atthe same time, or before the using Department reclves the convactorsfizal invoice. Final payments
‘nay beheld until he Utilization Reports have been receive.

NOTICE: Do not submit invoices with *MBE/WBE Ullzation Reports.”

During the term of al other contracts, the contractor shall submit regular“MBE/WBE Usilization Reports," a
copy of which is altached. The frequency with which these reports are to be submited will be determined bythe
Chief Procurement Officer, bu in no ease wil report be required less often than ona quarterly basis. Inihe

Page 6 of 9
vi

Report” willbe dive ninty (90) davs afer the date of contact award, and reports wil be due quarter thereat.

“MDE/WBE Utilization Reports” ae tobe submited directly to: Department of Procurement Services,
Office of Vendor Relations, City Hall, Room 403,121 N, LaSalle Suet, Chicago noi 60602.

‘The Contract Complisnce Administrator shal be ented to examine on five (5) business days notice, the
contractors books and records inlding without limitation payrllrecoeds, ax returns and records, and books of
fSccount, to determine whether the contactor iin compliance with its commitment to MBEJWBE participation
td the status of any MBE ot WBE performing any portion ofthe contact Such ights ae in addition to any
‘ther audit inspection rights contained inthe contact.

MBEAVDE Substitutions
‘Changes by the contactor ofthe commitments etlier entfed in the Schedule D3 ae prohibited. In some cases,

however, itmay become necessary to substitute a new MBE of WBE in order lo sctaly full the MBE/WBE
requirements

“The contractor mast not the Chief Procurement Officer immediately in writing ofthe necessity to reduce ot
terminate an MBE/WBE subcontract and to uiliz a substitute Sm for some phase of work. The contractors
‘alfcation should include the reason forthe substitution request, as wel as, the name, eddress and principal
‘officiel ofthe subtitete MBE/WBE and the dollar vale and seope of work ofthe subcontract. Attached should
bea the requis te MBE/WBE affidavits and documents, s enumerated above in Section VI. above, “Procedure
a Determine Bid Complians.”

“The Cty will not approve exra payment for escalate costs incurred bythe contractor when a subsitution of
subcontractors becomes necessary forthe contactor in order to comply with MBE/WBE contract requirement.

_Aftr avard of contrat, no relief ofthe MBE/WBE requirements willbe granted by the City except in
‘exceptional citcumstances. Requests for complete ot pata waiver of the MBE/WBE requirements of this
‘contract must be made in writing, stating all deals ofthe eques, the circumstances, and any addtional relevant
information. The request must be accompanied by a record of al efforts taken by the contactor to locale specific
finns, soliet MBE/WBE tide, seck asstance from technical assistance agencies, et, as outlined above inthe
section V, above, ented“ etn dons To or Waive RE Goals”.

Non-Compliance and Damages

“The fllowing constitutes a material breach ofthis contract and shal enti the City to declare a defal, terminate
the contrac and exerie thove remedies provided for in the contact, at law orn equity

(1) failure to satisfy the MBE/WBE percentages required by the contrac; and

@) she contractor or subcontractor is disqualified as an MBE oF WBE, and such status was factor in
contract award, and was misrepresented by the contacter.

Inthe even thatthe contractor i determined not o have been involved in any misrepresentation ofthe status of
the disqualified subcontractor or supplier, the contractor shall seek to discharge the disqualified subcontractor or
“supplier, upon proper aaifiation tothe Chef Procurement OMicer andor Contact Compliance Administratae
tnd rake every effort to identity and engage a gualifed MBE or WBE as its replacement. Furthermore,
‘continaed eligibility to enter ino future contracting arrangements with the City may be jeopardized asa vesult of
ron-complianee. Payments duet the contractor may be witheld ntl corrective action i take,

Arbitration
tn the event that «contactor has not complied with the contractual MBE/WBE percentages in its Schedule D,
Page 7 0f9
x.

xu,

_undertilzation of MBES/WBESs shall entitle the affected MBE/WBE to recover fom the contractor damages
suffered by such entity as a result of being underulllzed; provided, however, at this provision shall nt apply to
the extent such underuilization sears porsunt to a waiver or subeittion approved by the City. The Ordinance
and contacts subject thereto provide that any disputes between the contractor and sh affected MBES/WBES
regarding éamages shall be resolved by binding arbivation before an independent arbitrator other than the City,
with reasonable expenses, including storeys fees, being recoverable by a prevalling MBE/WBE in accordance
With these regulations. This provsin is intended forthe benefit of any MBE/WBE affected by undertilization
‘nd grants such entity specifi third panty beneficiary rights. Any rights confered by this regulation are non
waivale ad tak precedence over any agreement to the contrary, including but not imited to those contained in
= subcontract, suborder, or communicated orally between a coniactor and an MBEIWBE.

‘An MBE/WBE desiring to arbitate shall contac the contractor in writing to init the arbitrate process.
"Except as otherwise agreed to in writing by the afTeted parties subject othe limitation contained inthe last,
sentence ofthe previous paragraph, Section X. A. above, within ten (10) éays ofthe corractor receiving
‘natfcation ofthe intent to arbitrate ffom the MBE/WBE the above-described disputes shal be arbiwated in
sccordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules ofthe American Arbitration Association AAA"), a not-for-
‘profit ageney, with an ofice at 225 North Michigan Avense, Suite 2527, Chicago, Ilinois 60601-7160} (Phone:
(G12) 616-6560; Fax: (312) 819-0404), All rochabitratons shal be fiiated by the MBEWBE fling a
‘demand for arbiation withthe AA; shal be conducted bythe AAA; and held in Chicago, Iino

All fes ofthe arbitrator are the ina esponsibility ofthe MBEYWBE; povided, however, thatthe arbitrator i
‘uthorized to award reasonable expenses, including attorneys and wbitraorfes, a damages to @pevaling
MBEAWBE.

‘The MBE/WBE must send the City «copy ofthe “Demand for Arbitration” within tn (10) days afer it i let
withthe AAA. The MBE/WBE alo must send the City «copy ofthe decision ofthe arbitrator within ten (10)
ays of receiving such decision. Judgment upon the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court
of competent junsdction.

Record Keeping
The Contractor shall maintain record of ll elevant data with respect to the utization of MBESWBEs,
‘retaining these records for a period of at least three years ate final acceptance of the work, Full accesso
these records shal be granted tothe City of Chicago, Federal or State authorities inthis project, the U.S.
Department of Justice, or any duly authorized representatives thereat.

formation Sources

Small business guaranteed loans; surety bond guarantes; 8 (8 enificaion:

US. Small Business Administration SBA. - Bond Guarantee Program
500 W. Madison Street, Suite 1250, Surety Bonds

Chicago, Inc's 6066% 500 West Madison, Suite 1250,
Genera information Chicago, inois 60661

617 353-4528 “Attention: Carole Haris

(612)353-4003

SB.A.- Procurement Assistance
500 West Madion, Suite 1250

Chicago, ineis 60661,

Atetion: Robert P, Murphy, Area Regional Administrator
12) 353-7381

Project information and general MBE/WBE information

Page 8 of 9

City of Chicago City of Chicago

Department of Procurement Department of Procerement
Office of Vendor Relations Contract Administration Division
City Hal - Room 403, City Hall -Room 403

‘Chicago, Hinois 60602 Chicago, Mlinois 60602
Attention: Artention: Byron Whitaker
(612) 744-7685 12) 744-4926,

Directory of Certified Disadvantaged, Minor

and Women Business Enerprisss

City of Chicago
Departmeat of Procerement

Office of Business Development -Certiiation Unb
City Hall - Room 403,

CCiesgo, tines 60602

Attention: Lori Lypson

12) 744-4909,

(General Information, Depertment of Procurement Services: wew.cityofehicageore/purchasing

Information on MBE/WBE availability inthe manufacturing, sales o supplies, and related fields (direct
assistance from 42 repinalaflites located thoughout he US.)

National Minority Suppliers Chicago Minority Business
Development Council Inc. Development Council

1040 Avenue ofthe Amerias, 2 oor 1 East Wacker Drive

New York New York 10018, Suite 1200

‘tention: Harriet R. Michel CCicag,tinois 60601

12) 944.2430 ‘Attention: Traeye Smith, Executive Director

Prone #: (312) 55-8880,
Pax #: (312) 755-8850

Page 9 of
ATTACHMENT A - ASSIST AGENCY

AFRICAN AMERICAN CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION
3901 S. STATE

CHICAGO, 1 60653

PHONE #: (312) 915.5960

FAX #312) 567-9919

WEB: NONE

EMAL: OMARAACA@HODMAL,COM

|ATIN: OMAR SHARE, PRESIDENT

ASIAN AMERICAN ALLIANCE
222 W. CERMAK ROAD

SUITE 303

CHICAGO, i 60616

PHONE #: (312) 293-1249

FAX #: 312) 295-3682

WE: WW ASTANAMERICANAL LANCE COM
EMAIL: CTAKADA@ASIANAMFRICANALIIANCE.COM

(CHICAGO URBAN LEAGUE
2205, STATE STREET

11 FLOOR

CHICAGO, 60604

PHONE #: (312) 692.0766 EXT, 256

Fax #2 (31216920768

WEB: NWACULCHICACO. ORG

EMAIL: ARCHIE@CULCHICAGO. ORC
[ATTN JOAN ARCHIE, DIRECTOR OF
EMPLOYMENT, COUNSELING & TRAINING

(COSMOPOLITAN CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
‘560 WEST LAKE ST, SUITE S™ FLOOR
CHICAGO, 60664

PHONE #: (12) 786.0212

Fax #2 (31212349807

WEB: HWW COHAMBER.O8G

ATTN MITCH SCHNEIDER, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

[ASSOCIATION OF ASIAN CONSTRUCTION ENTERPRISES
333 N, OGDEN AVENUE

CHICAGO, 1. 69607

PHONE #: (312) 863.0746

FAK: (512) 666-1785

ATTN: PERRY NAKACHL PRESIDENT

BLACK CONTRACTORS UNITED
4400 W. 76" STREET

SUITE 200

CCHICACO, i 60620

PHONE #: (773) 483-4000

FAX #: (773) 483-4150

‘WED: WWW BL ACKCONTRACIORSUNITED COM
ATTN: FLORENCECOX, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

CHICAGO MINORITY BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
(COUNCIL INC

EAST WACKER DRIVE

SUITE 1200

CHICAGO, i 6601

PHONE #: (312) 755.6880

FAX #: 12) 755.8890

onc

| XECUTIVE DIRECTOR

[ATTIN: GLORIA BELL, EXECUTIVE OIRECTOR

ROERATION OF WOMEN CONTRACTORS

HISPANIC AMERICAN CONTRACTORS INDUSTRY
ASSOCIATION (HACIA)

‘901 WEST JACKSON BOULEVARD

SUITE 205

CHICAGO, u 60607

PHONE #: 612) 666-5910

Fax #2 (312) 66655652

WEB: WWW.HACIAWORKS ORG

GMAIL: MALIO.CSAIOVBHACA WORKS ORG
ATTN CESAR A SANTOY, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

LATIN AMERICAN CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
13512 WEST FULLERTON AVENUE

CHICAGO, K 60647

PHONE #: (773) 252.5201

FAX #24779) 252-7065

wes

ANI LATINAMERICANCHAMBEROSCOMMERCECOM
EMAIL
LACCLATINAMERICANCHAMEROFCOMMERCE
ATTN: ANTHONY GUILLEN, DIRECTOR

Page 1 of 2
ILLINOIS HISPANIC CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
(FORMERLY MACO

33 N, LASALLE STREET

SUTTE 1720

‘CHICAGO, IL 60602

PHONE #: (312) 372.3010

FAK #: 312) 372-3403

WEB: WWW. MACCBUSINESS.COM

ATIN: JUAN OCHOA, PRESIDENT & CEO

[NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF WOMEN BUSINESS
‘OWNERS:

CHICAGO CHAPTER

53305, WELLS STREET

sume 110

CHICAGO, IL 60606

PHONE #: (312) 322-0990

FAX #: 12) 461-0238

WEB: WWW.NAWBOCHICAGO.ORG

EMAIL: INFO@NAWBOCHICAGO,COM

SUCCESSFUL INDEPENDENT NETWORK
‘ASSOCIATION GIN)

MAILING ADDRESS:
P.O.8Ox1N13,
CHICAGO, IL 60608,

STREET ADORESS:
2100 W. WASHINGTON
CHICAGO, Ik 60612
PHONE #: (312) 850-1665
FAX #:(312) 850-1665,
WEB: NONE

ATTN: DIANE JONES, PRESIDENT

[ATTN ARNETTE KING, GENERAL MANAGER.

TRITON COLLEGE
SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CENTER
2000 FIFTH AVENUE

ROOM R201

RIVER GROVE, IL 60171

PHONE #: (708) 456-0300 EXT, 3714
FAX #: (708) 583-3114

WEB: WWW.TRITON.EDU

EMAIL: GBARNES@TRITON.£DU

ATIN: CLAIR GREGOIRE, PRESIDENT

RAINBOW/PUSH COALITION
‘930 E. 0 STREET

CHICAGO, IL 60615

PHONE #: (73) 256-2728

FAX #: (773) 256-2751

WEB: WWW.RAINBOWPUSH ORG

ATTN: DONNA GAINES, DEPUTY DIRECTOR
TRADE BUREAU

SUBURBAN BLACK CONTRACTORS
{848 DODGE AVENUE

SUITE 347

EVANSTON, IL 60202

PHONE #: (847) 359-5356

FAX #: (847) 359-5367

WEB: NONE

ATTN: LARRY BULLOCK, PRESIDENT

rev. 3/17/05

ATTN: MARY ANN OLSON, DEAN OF
WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

UPTOWN CENTER HULL HOUSE
4520 N, BEACON STREET

CHICAGO, 1L 60640

PHONE #: (773) 561-3500

FAX #: (773) 361-3507

WEB: WWW. HULL HOUSE ORG/EOUHTM

Email: MAILTO:CROESCHI FY@HULI HOUSE ORG
ATTN: CURT ROESCHLEY, DIRECTOR

‘SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT

WOMEN'S BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CENTER,
8 SOUTH MICHIGAN AVENUE

SUITE 400

CHICAGO, 160603,

PHONE #: (312) 853-3477

FAX #: (312) 853-0145

WEB: WWW.WBDC.ORG

Email: MAILTO:HRATNER@WBDC,ORG
ATTN: HEDY RATNER, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

THE CHICAGO AREA GAY & LESBIAN CHAMBER OF
COMMERCE

1210W. ROSEDALE

CHICAGO, 1 60660

PHONE #: (773) 303-0167

FAX #: (773) 303-0168,

WEB: HTTP:/WWWW.GLCHAMBER ORGY

BARRY A. FLYNN, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

Page 2 of2
Schedule C-3

MBE/WEBE to Perform as Subcontractor
Request for Services (Task Order)

Contract #:

Project #:

From:
Tiara Biber)
Please check one: MBE: ] WBE: ]—Non-M/WBE:[
To: ‘and the City of Chicago:
Tiare of ie area}

‘The undersigned is prepared to provide the folowing described services or supply the following described goods in
connection wth the above named projec/contract:

‘The above described performance Is offered forthe following price and descrbed terms of payments:

Sep o Gone Ratan Fae

amare a

Schedule D-3
Compliance Plan regarding MBE and WBE Utilization
Request for Services (Task Order)

Project #:

In connection with the above captioned contract, I HEREBY DECLARE AND AFFIRM the I am the

‘and authorized representative of
Tie oy

Tae a ie Conair

and that I have personally reviewed the material and facts set forth in and submitted with the Schedule C-3
regarding Minority Business Enterprise and Women Business Enterprise (MBE/WBE) to perform as
subcontractor. All MBE/WBE firms included in this plan have been certified as such by the City of Chicago
(Current letter of Certification attached).

1. Complete this section for each MBE/WBE participating on the Request for Service.

1. Name of MBE/WBE firm:
Address:
Contact Person: Phone:
Dolllar Amount of Participation: $.
Percentage of Participation: %
If indirect participation is being used, describe in deta the serve that wil be performed andior goods that wil
be supplied. Give detailed project information (Le, project name, description, type of service that wil be

performed and/or supplies that are being purchased. Copies of invokes, bl of sale and canceled checks must
be submited tothe Department of Procurement Services upon project completion)

2. Name of MBE/WBE firm:
Address:
Contact Person: _ Phone:

Dolllar Amount of Participation: $
Percentage of Participation:

TI, Summary of MBE/WBE Proposal:

1. MBE Direct Participation

Name of MBE frm Dollar Amount Percent
— — $ %
B %
A %
— s %
“Total MBE Direct Participation $ —__%
2. MBE Direct Participation
Name of MBE frm Dollar Amount Percent
$ %
s %
s %
—— - 5 — %
“otal MBE Direct Participation 5 %
WBE Direct Participation
Name of WBE fern Dollar Amount Percent
- B %
— — $4 _ _%
$ %
s 9%
‘oval WAE Direct Patipation s %
WBE Direct Participation
Name of WOE fm Dollar Amount Percent
s_ %
5 %
A %
$ %
“otal WBE Direct Partlpation A %
Tf indirect partiipaton is being used, describe in detall the service that wil be performed and/or goods that wil
be supplied. Give detalle project informatio (Le, project name, description, type of service that will be
performed andor supplies that are being purchased. Copies of invoices, bil of sale and canceled checks must
be submited tothe Department of Procurement Services upon project completion.)

3, Name of MBE/WBE firm: __
Address: -
Contact Person: Phone:
Dolliar Amount of Participation: $.
Percentage of Participation: %
If Indirect participation is being used, describe in deta the service that wil be performed and/or goods that will
be supplied. Give detalied project information (Le, project name, description, type of service that will be

performed and/or supplies that are belng purchased. Copies of invoices, bl of sale and canceled checks must
be submited tothe Department of Procurement Services upon project completion.)

4. Attach additional sheets as needed.
‘To the best of my knowledge, information and belief, the facts and representations contained in this
‘schedule are true, and no material facts have been omitted.

‘The contractor designates the following person as their MBE/WBE Liaison Officer:

Name: - __ Phone Number:

1.¢o solemnly declare and affirm under penalties of perjury that the contents ofthe foregoing document
‘are true and correct, and that I am authorized, on behalf ofthe contractor, to make ths affidavit.

Signature of Affant (Date)

State of

Countyof

This instrument was acknowledged before me on _ _(date)
by (names of person/s)

as (type of authority, e/a/. officer, trustee, etc.)

of (name of party on behatf of whom instrument was executed).

(Seal)
Signature of Notary Public
EXHIBIT 5

ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT AND AFFIDAVIT
INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING
CITY OF CHICAGO
ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT
‘AND AFFIDAVIT

‘The City of Chicago (the "City”) requires disclosure ofthe information requested inthis
Economic Disclosure Statement and Affidavit ("EDS") before any Cty agency, department or
City Counc action regarding the matter that is the subject of this EDS. Please fully complete
cach statement, with all information current as ofthe date this EDS is signed. Ifa question i not
applicable, answer with "N.A." An incomplete EDS willbe returned and any City action willbe
delayed,

Please print or ype all responses clearly and legibly. Add additonal pages ifneeded,
boeing careful to identify the portion ofthe EDS to which each additonal page refers.

For purposes ofthis EDS:

pplicant” means any entity or person making an application tothe City for action requiring
City Council or other City agency approval

“Disclosing Party” means any entity or person submitting an EDS.

“Entity” of “Legal Entity” means a legal entity (for example, a corporation, parnership, joint
venture, limited ibility company or trust)

“Person” means human being,

WHO MUST SUBMIT AN EDS:

‘An EDS mus be submitted in any of the following thee circumstances:
1. Applicants: An Applicant must always file this EDS. Ifthe Applicant is a legal entity,
‘ate the fll name of that legal entity. If the Applicant isa person acting on hisher own,
‘behalf, state hivher name.
2. Entities holding an interest: Whenever a legal entity has a beneficial interest de,
directo indirect ownership) of more than 7.5% inthe Applicant, each such legal entity
‘must file an EDS on its own behalf.

3. Controlling entities: Whenever a egal entity directly or indiectly controls the
‘Applicant, each such controlling legal entity must file an EDS on its own behalf.
RSM MCGLADREY, INC.

INCUMBENCY CERTIFICATE.

1, R. Peter Fontaine, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of RSM
McGladtey, Ine., a Delaware corporation, hereby certify Tom Dobosenski is, as of the date
hereof, a duly elected and qualified officer of RSM McGladrey, Inc., holding the office of
Executive Vice President, National Consulting.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto affixed my signature and the corporate seal of
RSM McGladrey, Inc. this 28° day of June, 2007.

LE?

niaine
Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
‘STATEMENT OF UNANIMOUS CONSENT TO TAKE
‘ACTION IN LIEU OF A SPECIAL MEETING OF
‘THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF
RSM MCGLADREY, INC,

Jn lieu of a special meeting of the board of directors of RSM McGladrey, Ine,
Deleware corporation (the “Company”), the undersigned, being all of the directors of said
‘Company, do hereby consest to the adoption of, and do hereby adopt, the following resolutions
and declare them to be in full foree and effect as if they had been duly adopted at « meeting of
the directors ofthe Company, duly called, noticed and held.

RESOLVED, that the Master Consulting Agreement by and betwomn the Compeny and
‘The City of Chicago Department of Law and Department of Finance substantially inthe form
attached hereto as Exhibit A ((he Agreement”) be, and the same hereby is, in all respects,
‘approved and the Company is hereby authorized to enter into and perform its obligations under
the Agreement with such changes, additions or deletions as the officer executing the same may
approve.

RESOLVED, that any officer of the Company shall be, and each hereby is, authorized
‘and empowered to execute and deliver the Agreement in such form and substance and containing
such terms and conditions as the officer executing the same shall approve, such approval being
conclusively evidenced by his signature thereto.

RESOLVED, that this consent may be executed in counterparts.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Unanimous Consent as

of the 2$* day of September, 2007. This Unanimous Consent tall be fled with the minutes of
the Company.

STATEMENT OF UNANIMOUS CONSENT TO TAKE,
ACTION IN LIEU OF A SPECIAL MEETING OF
‘THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF

BSMMCGLADREY. ING,

In liew of a special meeting of the board of directors of RSM McGladrey, Inc.,
Delaware corporation (the “Company”, the undersigned, being all of the directors of said
‘Company, do hereby consent to the adoption of, and do hereby adopt, the following resolutions
‘and declare them to be in full force and effect as if they had been duly adopted at a meeting of
the directors of the Company, duly called, noticed and held.

RESOLVED, that the Master Consulting Agreement by and between the Company and
‘The City of Chicago Department of Law and Department of Finance substantially in the form
attached hereto as Exhibit A (the “Agreement”) be, and the same hereby is, in all respects,
‘approved and the Company is hereby authorized to enter into and perform its obligations under
the Agreement with such changes, additions or deletions as the officer executing the same may
‘approve.

RESOLVED, that any officer of the Company shall be, and each hereby is authorized
‘and empowered to execute and deliver the Agreement in such form and substance and containing
such terms and conditions asthe officer executing the same shall approve, such approval being
conclusively evidenced by his signature thereto.

RESOLVED, that this consent may be executed in counterparts,
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, tbe undersigned have executed this Unanimous Consent as

of the Z29*day of September, 2007, This Unanimous Conseat shall by filed with the minutes of
the Company.

Steven Tait
CITY OF CHICAGO
ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT
‘AND AFFIDAVIT
SECTI ONI- GENERAL INFORMATION
A. Legal name of Disclosing Party submitting this EDS Include d/b/a/ if applicable
RSM McGladrey, Ine.

Check ONE of the following three box

Indicate whether Disclosing Pany submitting this EDS is.
1. fa the Applicant
OR
2. [J legal entity holding a director indirect interest in the Applicant. State the legal name of the
Applicant in which Disclosing Party holds an interest
OR
3. [] a specified legal entity with a right of control (see Section IL.B. 1.b.) State the legal name of
the entity in which Disclosing Party holds a right of control:

B. Business address of Disclosing Party One South Wacker Dr., Suite 800
Chicago, 11. 60606

C. Telephone: (312) 634-3400__Fax: (312) 634-3410 _Emsil:_Larry.schaede1@remt.com

D. Name of contact person; __Larry W. Schaedet

E Federal Employer Identification No. (if you have one): _ 4

946416

F Brief description of contract, transaction or ther undertaking (referred to below as the "Mattes") 10
‘which this EDS pertains. (Include project number and locaton of property, if applicable)

Financial Services Specification No. 42506

G. Which City agency or department is requesting this EDS? _Ptnance and taw

lf the Matter is a contract being handled by the City’s Department of Procurement Services, please
complete the following:

Specification #42504 and Contract #

vent Page 1 of 13
SECTION 11 - DISCLOSURE OF OWNERSHIP INTERESTS

‘A. NATURE OF DISCLOSING PARTY

1. Indicate the nature ofthe Disc
1) Person J Limited liability company*

K] Publicly registered business corporation _[] Limited liability partnership*

Privately held business corporation {Joint venture*

(J Sole proprietorship Not-for-profit corporation

[J General partnership ( the not-for-profit corporation also a 501 (c)(3))?
[Limited partnership (Yes [No

Trust [1 Other (please specify)

* Note B. Lb below.

2, For legal entities, the state (or foreign country) of incorporation or organization, if applicable:

Delawas

3, For legal entities not organized in the State of Illinois: Has the organization registered to do
business in the State of Illinois asa foreign entity?

La Yes UNo UNA
B. IF THE DISCLOSING PARTY IS A LEGAL ENTITY:

Le List below the full names and ttle ofall executive officers and all directors ofthe entity
For not-for-profit corporations, also list below all members, if any, which are legal entities. If there are
no such members, write "no members." For trusts, estates or other similar entities, list below the legal
titleholder(s)

Name Tile

SRE LIST CONTAINED WITHIN ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMIONY ATTACHMINTT

YOLLOWING SIGNATURE PAGE.

Lb. Ifyou checked “General partnership,” “Limited partnership,” “Limited liability
company,” “Limited liability partnership” or “Joint venture” in response to tem A. 1, above (Nature of
Disclosing Party), list below the name and ttle of each general partner, managing member, manager or

Page 2 of 13
any other person of entity that controls the day-to-day management ofthe Disclosing Party. NOTE:
ach legal entity listed below must submit an ED $ on its own behalf.

Name Title

2. Please provide the following information concerning each person or entity having a direct or
indirect beneficial interest (including ownership) in excess of 75% of the Disclosing Party. Examples
of such an interest include shares in a corporation, partnership interest in a partnership or joint venture,
interest of a member or manager ina limited liability company, or interest ofa beneficiary of att,
estate or other similar entity. If none, state "None NOTE: Pursuant to Section 2-154-030 of the
“Municipal Code of Chicago (Municipal Code", the City may require any such additional information
‘ror any applicant whichis reasonably intended to achieve full disclosure

Name Business Address Percentage Interest in the
Disclosing Party

‘SEE LAST CONTAINED WITHIN ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT FOLLOWING
SIGNATURE PAGE.

‘SECTION III ~ BUSINESS RELATIONSHIPS WITH CITY ELECTED OFFICIALS

Has the Disclosing Party had a "business relationship,” as defined in Chapter 2-156 of the Municipal
Code, with any City elected official in the 12 months before the date this EDS is signed?

(Yes BN

Ifyes, please identify below the name(s) of such City elected official(s) and describe such
relationship (3)

SECTION IV ~ DISCLOSURE OF SUBCONTRACTORS AND OTHER RETAINED PARTIES
The Disclosing Party must disclose the name and business address of each subcontractor, attorney,

lobbyist, accountant, consultent and any other person or entity whom the Disclosing Party has setained

‘expects to retain in connection with the Matter, as well as the nature ofthe relationship, and the total

Page 3 of 13
amount of the fees paid or estimated to be paid. The Disclosing Party is not required to disclose
‘employees who are paid solely through the Disclosing Party's regular payroll

“Lobbyist” means any person or entity who undertakes to influence any legislative or administrative
action on behalf of any person or entity other than: (1) a not-for-profit entity, on an unpaid basis, or (2)
himself. "Lobbyist" also means any person or entity any part of whose duties as an employee of
another includes undertaking to influence any legislative or administrative action.

Ifthe Disclosing Party is uncertain whether a disclosure is required under this Section, the
Disclosing Party must either ask the City whether disclosure is required or make the disclosure.

Name Business Relationship o Disclosing Party Fees
(indicate whether Address (subcontractor, attorney, (indicate whether
retained or anticipated lobbyist, ete.) paid or estimated)
tobe retained)

SEE ATTACHED LIST.

(Add sheets if necessary)

J Check here ifthe Disclosing party has not retained, nor expects to retain, any such persons or
entities

SECTION V -- CERTIFICATIONS.
A COURT-ORDERED CHILD SUPPORT COMPLIANCE
Under Municipal Code Section 2-92-415, substantial owners of business entities that contract with

the City must remain in compliance with their child support obligations throughout the term of the
contrac.

Has any person who directly or indirectly owns 10% or more of the Disclosing Party been declared in
arrearage on any child suppor obligations by any linois cour of competent jurisdiction?

Yes ByNo [No person owns 10% or more of the Disclosing Party

1If*Yes,” has the person entered into a court-approved agreement for payment of all support owed and
isthe person in compliance with that agreement?

(Yes {No

Page 4 of 13,
Section IV- Disclosure of Subcontractors and Other Related Partios
(ATTACHMENT)
41) Name (indicated whether retained or anticipated)

Resonance Management & Technology Solutions DUR.
Business Address: 5857 North Manton Avenue, Chicago IL 60648
Relationship to Disclosing Paty (subcontractor, attomey, lobbyist lc): Subcontractor
Fees (indicate whether paid or estimated): 16.9% of RSM McGladrey Fe
2) Name (indicated whether retained or anticipated):

‘Arrow Mossonger Services DUR.

Business Address: 1322 West Walton, Chicago, IL 60622
Relationship o Disclosing Party (subcontractor, atomey, lobbyist, ele): Subcontractor

Fees (indicate whether paid or estimated): 4.5% of RSM McGladrey Foes
8. FURTHER CERTIFICATIONS

1. The Disclosing Party and, if the Disclosing Party isa legal entity, all of those persons or entities
identified in Section ILB. |. ofthis ED S:

are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible or voluntarily
‘excluded from any transactions by any federal, state or local unit of government,

b. have not, within a five-year period preceding the date of this EDS, been convicted of a criminal
offense, adjudged guilty, or had e civil judgment rendered against them in connection with:
obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public (federal, state or local transaction or
contract under a public transaction; a violation of federal or state antitrust statutes, fraud;
‘embezzlement; theft; forgery; bribery; falsification or destruction of records, making false
‘statements, or receiving stolen property;

«are not presently indicted for or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity
federal, state or local) with commission of any of the offenses enumerated in clause B. 1.b, of
this Section V;

4 have not, within a five-year period preceding the date of this EDS, had one or more public
transactions (federal, state or local) terminated for cause or default; and

© have not, within a five-year period preceding the date ofthis EDS, been convicted, adjudged
guilty, or found liable in a civil proceeding, or in any criminal or civil action, including actions
Concerning environmental violations, instituted by the City or by the federal government, any
state, o any other unit of local government,

2. The certifications in subparts 2, 3 and 4 concern:

+ the Disclosing Party;

+ any “Applicable Party” (meaning any party participating in the performance of the Matter,
including but not limited to any persons or legal entities disclosed under Section IV, “Disclosure of
‘Subcontractors and Other Retained Parties”),

+ any "Affiliated Entity* (meaning a person or entity tha, directly or indirectly: controls the
Disclosing Party, is controlied by the Disclosing Party, or is, with the Disclosing Party, under
‘common control of another person or entity. Indicia of control include, without limitation:
interlocking management or ownership; identity of interests among family members, shared facilities
and equipment; common use of employees; or organization of a business entity following the
ineligibility of a business entity to do business with federal or state or local government, including,
the City, using substantially the same management, ownership, or principals as the ineligible entity);
with respect to Applicable Parties, the term Affiliated Entity means a person or entity that directly or
indirectly controls the Applicable Party, is controlled by it, or, with the Applicable Party, is under
‘common control of another person or entity;

Page S of 13
ny responsible official ofthe Disclosing Party, any Applicable Party or any Affilisted Entity or
any other official, agent or employee of the Disclosing Party, any Applicable Party or any Affiliated
Entity, acting pursuant tothe direction or authorization of a responsible official of the Disclosing,
Party, any Applicable Party or any A filiated Entity (collectively "Agents")

‘Neither the Disclosing Party, nor any Applicable Party, nor any Affiliated Entity of either the
Disclosing Party or any Applicable Party nor any Agents have, during the five years before the date this
EDS is signed, or, with respect to an Applicable Party, an Affiliated Entity, or an Affiliated Entity of an
Applicable Party during the five years before the date of such Applicable Party's or Affiliated Entity's
‘contract or engagement in connection with the Matter

2 bribed or attempted to bribe, or been convicted or adjudged guilty of bribery or attempting to
bribe, a public officer or employee of the City, the State of Illinois, or any agency of the federal
‘government or of any state or local government in the United States of America, in that officer's
or employee's official capacity;

b. agreed or colluded with other bidders or prospective bidders, or been a party to any such
agreement, or been convicted or adjudged guilty of agreement or collusion among bidders or
prospective bidders, in restraint of freedom of competition by agreement to bid a Fixed price or
otherwise, or

made an admission of such conduct described in a. orb, above that is a matter of record, but
hhave not been prosecuted for such conduct; or

4. violated the provisions of Municipal Code Section 2-92-610 (Living Wage Ordinance).

3. Neither the Disclosing Party, Affiliated Entity or Applicable Party, or any of their employees,
officials, agents or partners, is barred from contracting with any unit of state or local government as &
result of engaging in or being convicted of (1) bid-rigging in violation of 720 ILCS $/33E-3; (2)
bid-rotating in violation of 720 ILCS 5/33E-4; or (3) any similar offense of any state or of the United
States of America that contains the same elements as the offense of bid-rigging or bid-rotating.

4. Neither the Disclosing Party nor any Affiliated Entity is listed on any of the following lists
‘maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury of the
‘Bureau of Industry and Security of the U'S. Department of Commerce or their successors: the Specially
Designated Nationals List, the Denied Persons List, the Unverified List, the Entity List and the
Debarred List

5. The Disclosing Party understands and shall comply with (1) the applicable requirements of the

Governmental Ethics Ordinance of the City, Title 2, Chapter 2-156 of the Municipal Code; and (2) all
the applicable provisions of Chapter 2-56 of the Municipal Code {Office of the Inspector General)

Page 6 of 13,
6. If the Disclosing Party is unsble to certify to any of the above statements in this Part B (Further
Certifications), the Disclosing Party must explain below:

If the letters "NA," the word "None," or no response appears on the lines above, it will be conclusively
presumed that the Disclosing Party certified to the above statements.

C. CERTIFICATION OF STATUS AS FINANCIAL INSTITUTION

For purposes of this Part C, under Municipal Code Section 2-32-455(b) the term “financial institution”
‘means a bank, savings and lon association, thrif, credit union, mortgage banker, mortgage broker,
trust company, sevings bank, investment bank, securities broker, municipal securities broker, securities
dealer, municipal securities dealer, securities underwriter, municipal securities underwriter, investment
‘rust, Venture capital company, bank holding company, financial services holding company, oF any
licensee under the Consumer Installment Loan Act, the Sales Finance Agency Act, or the Residential
‘Mortgage Licensing Act. However, financial institution” specifically shall not include any-entity
‘whose predominant business is the providing of tax deferred, defined contribution, pension plans to
public employees in accordance with Sections 403(b) and 457 of the Intemal Revenue Code.
(Additional definitions may be found in Municipal Code Section 2-32-455(b).)

1. CERTIFICATION

‘The Disclosing Party certifies that the Disclosing Party (check one)

(2) RSM oven an entity, Birchtree Financial Services, Inc.
Bris [isnot that de 2 "Financial Institution’

"Financial instin

as define

Section 2-32-455(b) of the Municipal Code.
2. Ifthe Disclosing Party 1S a financial institution, then the Disclosing Party pledges:

"We are not and will not become a predatory lender as defined in Chapter 2-32 of the Municipal
Code, We further pledge that none of our affiliates is, and none of them will become, a predatory
lender as defined in Chapter 2-32 of the Municipal Code. We understand that becoming a predatory
lender or becoming an affiliate of a predatory lender may result in the loss of the privilege of doing
business with the City."

If the Disclosing Party is unable to make this pledge because it or any ofits affiliates (as defined in
‘Section 2-32-4550) af the Municipal Code) is a predatory lender within the meaning of Chapter

Page 7 of 13,
2.32 of the Municipal Code, explain here (attach additional pages if necessary):

Ifthe leters "NA," the word "None," or no response appears on the lines above, it willbe
conclusively presumed that the Disclosing Party certified to the above statements.

D. CERTIFICATION REGARDING INTEREST IN CITY BUSINESS

‘Any words or terms that are defined in Chapter 2-156 of the Municipal Code have the same
‘meanings when used in this Par D.

1. In accordance with Section 2-156-110 of the Municipal Code: Does any official or employee
of the City have a financial interest in his or her own name or in the name of any other person or
entity in the Matter?

OYes 44No

‘NOTE: If you checked "Yes" to Item D. L, proceed to Items D.2. and D.3. If you checked "No" to
Item D, L, proceed to Part E.

2. Unless sold pursuant to a process of competitive bidding, or otherwise permitted, no City
lected official or employee shall have a financial interest in his or her own name or in the name of
‘any other person or entity in the purchase of any property that () belongs to the City, or (i) is sold
for taxes or assessments, or (ii) is sold by virtue of legal process atthe suit of the City (collectively,
“City Property Sale"). Compensation for property taken pursuant to the City's eminent domain power
4éoes not constitute a financial interest within the meaning of this Part D.

Does the Matter involve a City Property Sale?

Yes FANo

3. Ifyou checked "Yes" to Item D. L, provide the names and business addresses of the City
officials or employees having such interest and identify the nature of such interest:

Name Business Address ‘Nature of Interest

4, The Disclosing Party further certifies that no prohibited financial interest in the Matter will
bbe acquired by any City official or employee.

Page 8 of 13
E, CERTIFICATION REGARDING SLAVERY ERA BUSINESS

‘The Disclosing Party has searched any and all records ofthe Disclosing Party and any and all
predecessor entities for records of investments or profits from slavery, the slave industry, or
slaveholder insurance policies from the slavery era (including insurance policies issued to
slaveholders that provided coverage for damage to or injury or death of their slaves) and has
disclosed in this EDS any and all such records tothe City. In addition, the Disclosing Party must
disclose the names of any and all slaves or slaveholders described in those records. Failure to
‘comply with these disclosure requirements may make the Matter to which this EDS pertains voidable
by the City,

Please check either 1. or 2. below. Ifthe Disclosing Party checks 2., the Disclosing Party must
disclose below or in an attachment to this EDS all requisite information as set forth in that paragraph 2.

_X_1. The Disclosing Party verifies that (a) the Disclosing Party has searched any and all records of
The Disclosing Party and any and all predecessor entities for records of investments or profits from
slavery, the slave industry, or slaveholdes insurance policies, and (b) the Disclosing Party has found
no records of investments or profits from slavery, the slave industry or slaveholder insurance

policies and no records of names of any slaves or slaveholders.

2. The Disclosing Party verifies that, as a result of conducting the search in step 1 (a) above, the
Disclosing Party has found records relating to investments or profits from slavery, the slave industry,
‘or slaveholder insurance policies and/or the names of any slaves or slaveholders. The Disclosing
Party verifies that the following constitutes full disclosure of all such records:

SECTION VI~ CERTIFICATIONS FOR FEDERALLY-FUNDED MATTERS

NOTE: If the Matter is federally funded, complete this Section VI. Ifthe Matter is not federally
funded, proceed to Section VI

A. CERTIFICATION REGARDING LOBBYING
1, List below the names of all persons or entities registered under the federal Lobbying

Disclosure Act of 1995 who have made lobbying contacts on behalf of the Disclosing Party with
respect to the Matter: (Begin list here, add sheets as necessary):

Page 9 of 13
(fno explanation appears or begins on the Lines above, or if the letters "NA or ifthe word "None"
appear, it will be conclusively presumed that the Disclosing Party means that NO persons or entities
‘egistered under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made lobbying contacts on behalf ofthe
‘Disclosing Party with respect to the Matter.)

2, The Disclosing Party has not spent and will not expend any federally appropriated funds to
py any person or entity listed in Paragraph A. 1. above for his or her lobbying activities orto pay any
person of entity to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, as defined
‘by applicable federal law, a member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an
employee of a member of Congress, in connection with the award of any federally funded contract,
‘making any federally funded grant or loan, entering into any cooperative agreement, ot extend,
continue, renew, amend, or modify aay federally funded contract, grant, loan, or cooperative
agreement

3. The Disclosing Party will submit an updated certification atthe end of each calendar quarter
in which there occurs any event that materially affects the accuracy of the statements and information
set forth in paragraphs A. 1. and A.2. above.

If the Matter is federally funded and any funds other than federally appropriated funds have been or

will be paid to any person or entity for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee
of any agency (as defined by applicable federal law), a member of Congress, an officer or employee
cof Congress, or an employee of a member of Congress in connection with the Matter, the Disclosing
Party must complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, "Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying.*
accordance with its instructions. The form may be obtained online from the federal Office of
‘Management and Budget (OMB) web ste at tip//wwe. whitehouse gov/omb/grants/sllin. pd

linked on the page bttp’/wwrw whitehouse goviomb/erents/rants forms html.

4. The Disclosing Party certifies that either: () itis not an organization described in section
'$01(¢X4) ofthe Internal Revenue Code of 1986; or (i) it is an organization described in section
'501(eX4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 but has not engaged and will not engage in
"Lobbying Activities"

5. Ifthe Disclosing Party is the Applicant, the Disclosing Party must obtain certifications equal
in form and substance to paragraphs A. 1. through A.4. above from all subcontractors before it
awards any subcontract and the Disclosing Party must maintain all such subcontractors’ certifications
for the duration of the Matter and must make such certifications promptly available to the City upon
request.

B. CERTIFICATION REGARDING EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
Ifthe Matter is federally funded, federal regulations require the Applicant and all proposed

subcontractors to submit the following information with their bids or in writing at the outset of
negotiations.

Page 10 of 13,
Is the Disclosing Party the Applicant?
Yes No
If "Yes," answer the three questions below:

1. Have you developed and do you have on file affirmative action programs pursuant to
applicable federal regulations? (See 41 CFR Part 60-2.)
Yes KENo

2. Have you filed with the Joint Reporting Committee, the Director of the Office of Federal
Contract Compliance Programs, or the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission all reports due
‘under the applicable filing requirements?

Byes [No

3. Have you participated in any previous contracts or subcontracts subject to the
equal opportunity clause?

Byes UNo

If you checked "No" to question 1. or 2. above, please provide an explanation:
RSM McGladrey, Inc. is not subject to Federal Affirmative Action requirements, but

comnitted to providing equal opportunity employment to all persons without regard to race,

color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, age, veteran status, disability or national origin.|

SECTION VII ACKNOWLEDGMENTS, CONTRACT INCORPORATION,
COMPLIANCE, PENALTIES, DISCLOSURE.

‘The Disclosing Party understands and agrees that:
‘A. By completing and filing this EDS, the Disclosing Party acknowledges and agrees, on behalf of

itself and the persons or entities named in this EDS, that the City may investigate the
creditworthiness of some or all ofthe persons or entities named in this EDS,

B, The certifications, disclosures, and acknowledgments contained in this EDS will become part of
‘any contract or other agreement between the Applicant and the City in connection with the Mater,
‘whether procurement, City assistance, or other City action, and are material inducements to the City’
‘execution of any contract or taking other action with respect to the Matter. The Disclosing Party

understands that it must comply with all statutes, ordinances, and regulations on which this EDS is
based,

C. The City's Governmental Ethics and Campaign Financing Ordinances, Chapters 2-156 and 2-164
of the Municipal Code, impose certain duties and obligations on persons or entities seeking City
contracts, work, business, or transactions. The full text of these ordinances and a training program is,
available on line at wow cityofchicago org/Ethics. and may also be obtained from the City's Board
of Ethics, 740 N. Sedgwick St,, Suite 500, Chicago, IL 60610, (312) 744-9660, The Disclosing Party
‘must comply fully with the applicable ordinances,

Page 11 of 13
u.

If the City determines that any information provided in this EDS is false, incomplete or inaccurate, any
contract or other agreement in connection with which it is submitted may be rescinded or be void or
voidable, and the City may pursue any remedies under the contract or agreement (if not rescinded, void
or voidable), at law, or in equity, including terminating the Disclosing Party's participation inthe Matter
and/or declining to allow the Disclosing Party to participate in other transactions with the City.
Remedies at law for a false statement of material fact may include incarceration and an award tothe City
of treble damages.

It Is the City's policy to make this document available to the public on its Internet

request, Some or all of the information provided on this EDS and any attachments to thi

‘made available to the public on the Internet, in response to a Freedom of Information Act request, of

otherwise. By completing and signing this EDS, the Disclosing Party waives and releases any possible

rights or claims which it may have against the City in connection with the public release of information

contained in this EDS and also authorizes the City to verify the accuracy of any information submitted in
is EDS,

‘The information provided inthis EDS must be kept cures. In the event of changes, the Disclosing Party
rust supplement tis EDS up tothe time the City takes acon on the Mater. Ifthe Mater is a contract,
being handled by the City's Department of Procurement Services, the Disclosing Party most update this
[EDS asthe contract requires.

‘The Disclosing Party represents and warrants that:

‘The Disclosing Party has not withheld or reserved any disclosures as to economic interests in the
Disclosing Party, or as to the Matter, or any information, data or plan as to the intended use or purpose
for which the Applicant seeks City Councilor ther City agency action,

For purposes of the certifications in H.1, and H.2. below, the term “affiliate” means any person or entity
that, drecly or indirecly: controls the Disclosing Party, is controled by the Disclosing Party, or is, with
the Disclosing Party, under common control of another person or entity. Indicia of control include,
without limitation: interlocking management or ownership; identity of interests among family members;
shared facilities and equipment; common use of employees, or organization of a business entity
following the ineligibility of a business entity to do business with the federal government oF a state or
local government, including the City, using substantially the same management, ownership, or principals
48 the ineligible entity

‘The Disclosing Party is not delinqueat in the payment of any tax administered by the Ilinois Department
‘of Revenue, nor are the Disclosing Party or its afliates delinquent in paying any fine, fe, tax or other
charge owed to the City. This includes, but is not limited to, all water charges, sewer charges, license
fees, parking tickets, property taxes or sales taxes

If the Disclosing Party is the Applicant, the Disclosing Party and its affiliates will not use, nor permit
their subcontractors to use, any facility on the U.S. EPA's List of Violating Facilities in connection with
‘the Matter forthe duration of time that such facility remains onthe list.
3. If the Disclosing Party is the Ap Disclosing Party ‘obtain from any
contractorstubeontractors hired or to be hired in connection with the Matter certifications equal in form
‘nd substance to those in HLL, and H.2. above and will not, without the prior written consent of the City,
Use any auch contractor/subcontractor that does not provide such certifications or thatthe Disclosing,
Party has reason to believe has not provided or cannot provide truthful certifications.

‘NOTE: If the Disclosing Party cannot certify as to any of the items in H.1., H2 or H3. above, an
‘explanatory statement must be attached to this EDS.

SRTIFICATION
der penalty of perjury, the person signing below: (1) warrants that he/she is authorized to execute this EDS

‘behalf of the Disclosing Party, and (2) warrants that all certifications and statements contained in this EDS
2 tue, accurate and complete as ofthe date furnished tothe City

RSM MEGLADREY, INC. Date; __Septenber 19, 2007
Fiat or type name of Disclosing Part)

PETER_ FONTAINE,
‘rint or type name of person signing)

SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT,
SENERAL COUNSEL AND SECRETARY

“rin or ype te of person signing)
‘goed and swom to before neon (at) 4-1-0" ty R Peden Footncde

Zook County, ELLs. NO. 5 (tate)

Won? Junobo. 2 Public

commission expires. _D.3-O2- 0%

NOTARY PUBLIC. STATECE WLM
Mr Comason crraesasone

10105 Version

ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT ATTACHMENT

LEGAL STRUCTURE OF PROPOSER ORGANIZATION
Proposing entity's ful lagal name is RSM McGladrey, Inc

One hundred percent (100%) of RSM McGladrey Inc's stock is owned by RSM McGladrey
Business Services, Inc.

One hundred percent (100%) of RSM McGladrey Business Services, In. stock is owned by HBR
Block Group, nc

(One hundred percent (100%) of H & R Block Group, Inc. stock is owned by HBR Block Inc
HBR Block, In. the utimate parent. HR Block, nc. is publicly traded.

‘Two parties own in excess of 75% of HBR Bloc, Inc. stock. The two partes are as follows:

Percent of Stock Owned
Haris Associates L.P. 27,362,670 835%
Hams Assocates Ine

“Two Noch LaSate Steet, Suite 500

‘Chicago, Iinois€06cz-3/80

Davis Seloctod Advisers, L.P.38.265,034 11.70%

2049 East Elvira Rose, Suite 10%
‘Toeson, Azone 65705

‘The remained ofthe HR Block, Inc. stock is owned by investors in percentage les than 7.5%.

RSM McGladrey, Inc.
(a subsidiary of RSM McGladrey Business Services, Inc.)

Jurisdiction of Incorporation: Delaware

Date of Incorporation: ‘6499

Name Change(s) Name changed from MGP Business Services, Inc. to RSM
McGladrey, inc. effective 727/88

Date Changed Status from PC to General Business Corp: NA

Filing No: 9800029

Registered Agent in Jurisdiction of Incorporation:

‘The Corporation Trust Company
Corporation Trust Center

ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT ATTACHMENT

1209 Orange Steet
Wilmington, DE 19801

Principal Office Address: 3600 American Boulevard West, Third For
Bloomington, MN 55431-4502

Nature of Business: Accounting and other financial services.
Class and Number of Shares of Stock Authorized:

30,000 shares of common stock, $0.01 par value pe share
‘Number of Shares issued by Class and Sharehoer(s):

1,000 shares issuod to RSM McGladrey Business Services, Inc. {8W/a HRB Business
Services, in.) on 6198

Date of Annus Meeting of Shareholders (per Bylaws): June 1

Federal Employer Wentiicaion Number: 41-1944416

Directors:
Mark A. Emst
Steven Tait

Officers:
Stoven Tait President
Cesar Soriano President, Financial Process Outsourcing
David M, Perce President, Wealth Management
Thomas M. Kiley ‘Chie Enterprise Services Officer
Kimpa A. Moss ‘Chief Human Resources Oficer
Joseph R.Topinka Chiat information Offcer
Arthur G. Smit ‘Chief Marketing Officer
Douglas W. Opheim Chief US. Client Operations Oficer
Rene Ordogne Chief Financial Officer and Chief of Sta
Wiliam L. Trubeck Executive Vice President and Treasurer
Joseph L Dennis Executive Vice President, Assurance Services
ike Hartson Executive Vice President, Business Development
Richard Noonan Executive Vice President, EU Operations
‘Thomas R. Siders Executive Vice President, EU Operations
Daniel G. Trigg Executive Vice Presiden, Financial institutions
Thomas 6. Murphy Executive Vice President. Manufacturing
Tom Dobosenski Executive Vice President, National Consuiting
J. Dan Brooks Executive Vice President, Operations & Acquisitions
Michael L. Metz Executive Vice President, Tax Services:
ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT ATTACHMENT

Patrica L, Blackburn

Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications

R. Peter Fontaine Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

Joseph L. McSpadiden Senior Vice President, Marketing Operations and
Business Development

Mark Audino ‘Senior Vice President, Marketing Strategy and Research

Robert Gerard Senior Vice President, Marketing and Communications

Vick M, Lubben Assistant Secretary

James E. Karin Assistant Treasurer

Kennion K. Yano ‘Assistant Treasurer

‘States in which Auborized to Transact Business:

50 stales: Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, Calfomia, Colorado, Connecticut,
Delaware, Dist. of Columbia, Florida, Georgi, Hawaii, Idaho, linois, Indiana, low,
Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota,
[Mississippi Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New
Mexico, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania,
Rhode island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Vignia,
‘Washington, West Viginia, Wisconsin, Wyoming

Canada: Ontario (dla Freed Maxick Canada ABL Services)

RSM McGladrey Business Services, Inc.

(a subsidiary of HER Block Group nc.)
Jursiton of incorporation

Date of corporation

Fling No

Name Change:

Registered Agent in Jurisdiction of incorporation:

Principal Office Address:

Delaware
March 27, 1886

9611 19500-2877142

Name changed fom HRB Business Sevioes,

Inc. to RSM McGladrey Business Services, Inc.
on 6/4108,

‘The Corporation Trust Company
1209 Orange Street
\Wimingion, DE 19801

4400 Main Steet
Kansas City, Missouri 64111
ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT ATTACHMENT

Natur of Business: Holding Company
Class and Number of Shares of Stock Authorized:

Common Stock, $0.01 par value, 1,000 shares
[Number of Shares issued by Class and Shareholders):

Common Stock: 1,000 shares issued to HBR
Block Group, in.

Preferred Stock None
Date of Annual Meeting of Shareholders (per Bylaw):

June tst ofeach year o, i legal holiday, on the next secular day following, at 10:00 am.

Federal Employer Kentiicaton Number 43481105
Directors:
Mark A. Emst
Steven Tait
Wiliam L. Trubeck
Officers:
‘Steven Tat President
Wiliam L. Trubeck Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Jetey E. Nachbor ‘Senior Vice President
Rene Ordogne Senior Vice President
Arthur. Sith ‘Senior Vice President
Bocky S. Shulman ‘Senior Vice President and Treasurer
R. Peter Fontaine Senior Vioe Present; General Counsel and Secretary
Joseph R. Topinka Assistant Vico President
Vicki M, Lubben Assistant Secretary
James E. Karin ‘Assistant Treasurer
Kennion K. Yano ‘Assistant Treasurer

‘States in which Authorized to Transact Business:

Delaware, Missouri
ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT ATTACHMENT
H&R Block Group, Inc.
(a subsidiary of HBR Block, Inc)
Juisticton of Incerporaion: Delaware
Date of Incorporation: January 21, 1993
Fling No 2323361
Registered Agent in Jurisdiction of Incorporation:
Griffin Corporate Services, Inc.
Joyce Vette
300 Delaware Avenue
9 Floor
Wilmington, OE 19601
Principal Offee Address:
‘Suite 101
TkHouse
Bayside Executive Park
Wes! Bay Ste! and Blake Road
P.0,BoxN-8220
Nassau, The Bahamas
Nature of Business: Holding Company
‘Cass and Number of Shares of Stock Autorze:
10,000 shares, Common Stock, par vale 1:00 per share
"Number of Shares Issued by Class and Shareholders)
400 shares issued to HER Block, In

Date of Annual Meeting of Shareholder (per Bylaws}:

Third Wednesday in September or, if legal holiday, on
the next secular day folowing, at {0:00 am.

Federal Employer dentfication Number: 51-0946923
ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT ATTACHMENT

Directors:
Dionisio J. D*Agutar
Andre Feldman
Rosalie Ann Kenney
Bret G. Wilson
Officers:
Bret G. Wilson President
yA. Biden ‘Vice President and Assistant Secretary
Rosalie Ann Kenney ‘Treasurer and Sectetary
‘States in which Authorized to Transact Business:

Delaware

H&R Block, Inc.
timate Parent Company

Juisccon of corporation Missout
Date of Incorporation: July 27,1955

Charter No 0068500

Name Change: Name changed fom Unied Business,

Incorporated, of Missouri on 11/2186.
Registered Agent in Jurisdiction of Incorporation:

Nicholas J. Spaeth

4400 Main Steet

Kansas City, Missouri 64111
Principal Office Ades:

4400 Main Steet

Kansas City, Missouri 64111

Nature of Business: Holding Company (ultimate Parent)
ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT ATTACHMENT

Class and Number of Shares of Stock Authorized

‘Common Stock, without parvalue: 600,000,000 shares
Preferred Stock, without par valve: 6,000,000 shares

Number of Shares issued by Class and Shareholder(s):

‘Common Stock: Publicy-traded {number varies daly)
Preferred Stock: None

CUSIP No. (099671105
Date of Annus! Meeting of Shareholders (per Bylaws):
First Wednesday in September

Federal Employer Wentfication Number: 44-0607856

Directors:
‘Thomas M. Bloch
Richard C. Breeden
Jerry D.Choates
Mark A. Emst
Henry F. Figon
Robert A. Gerard
Roger W. Hale
Len J. Laver
David Baker Lewis
‘Thomas D. Seip
‘Edward L. Shaw, Jr.
Officers:
Mark A. Emst ‘Chairman ofthe Board, President and Chief Executive Ofcer
Marc West “Group President, Commercial Markets
Wiliam L, Trubeck Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Offer
Carol F. Graebner Expcutive Vice President and General Counsel
Rich Agar ‘Senior Vice Present and Chief Information Officer
Brad. versen ‘Senior Vice President and Chie! Marketing Offcer
Becky 8. Shulman ‘Senior Vice President and Treasurer
Ronald H. lori ‘Senior Vice President, Communications
Jetrey E. Nachbor Senior Vice President, Corporate Controler
Tammy 8. Serat ‘Senior Vie President, Human Resources
Bret, Wison Vice President and Secretary

Linda M. McDougal Veo President, Communications
ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT ATTACHMENT

Christopher ©, Wren Viee President, Corporate Development
Robert A, Weinberger Vice President, Goverment Relations.

Nancy Frazee Assistant Vice President, Inermal Audit
Andrew J. Somora Assistant Secretary

dames E, Kafin Assistant Treasurer

Kennion K. Yano Assistant Treasurer

States in which Authorized to Transact Business:

Missouri
CITY OF CHICAGO
ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT
AND AFFIDAVIT

SECTION I - GENERAL INFORMATION
‘A. Legal name of Disclosing Party submitting this EDS. Include d/b/a! if applicable:
2SM McGladrey Turinent Services, Tne.
‘Check ONE of the following three boxes:
Indicate whether Disclosing Party submitting this EDS is:
1. [) the Applicant
oR

2. Be Jogal entity holding a direct or indirect interest in the Applicant. State the legal name of he
Applicant in which Disclosing Party holds an interest: _RSM MeCladtey, Inc.
OR

3. [] 8 specified legal entity with e right of control (see Section ILB.1..) State the legal name of
the entity in which Disclosing Party holds a right of control:

‘B. Business address of Disclosing Party: 4400 Main Street.
Kansas City, Wesourt 64112

©. Telephone: 312-634-3400 Fax: 312-654-9410 __Email:_ tarry. echaedeI@rael.com
D, Name of contact person: _Lazry W. Schaedel
Federal EmploysIdetifiotion No, (ifyou have one):__ 43-8130

FF. Brief description of contract, transaction or other undertaking (referred to below as the "Matter") to
‘which this EDS pertains. (Include project number and location of property, if applicable):

Financial Services Specification No. 42504

'G. Which City agency or departments requeating tis EDS?_Finance and Law

Af the Matter is a contract being handled by the City's Department of Procurement Services, please
‘complete the following:

Specification #__ 42504 ‘and Contract #

ee sna Page 1 of 13,
SECTION 11 - DISCLOSURE OF OWNERSHIP INTERESTS
A. NATURE OF DISCLOSING PARTY

1, Indicate the nature ofthe Disclosing Party:

() Person (J Limited liability company*

fc) Publicly registered business corporation _[] Limited liability partnership*

(1 Privately beld business corporation () Joint venture®

{] Sole proprietorship (J Not-for-profit comorstion

(] General pertnership* (is the not-for-profit corporation also # $01(6)(3))?
{] Limited partnership (Yes [INo

(Trust () Other (please specify)

* Note B.1.b below.
2. For legal entities, the state (or foreign country) of incorporation or organization, if applicable:
Delaware

3. For legal entities not organized in the State of Minois: Has the organization registered to do
business in the State of Ilinois as « foreign entity?

Yes [No NIA
B, IF THE DISCLOSING PARTY IS A LEGAL ENTITY:

1a. List below the full names and ttles of all executive officers and all directors of the entity.
For not-for-profit corporations, also list below all members, if any, which are legal entities. If there are

no such members, write "no members.” For truss, estates or other similar entities, list below the legal
titleholder(s).

Name Tite

SEE LIST CONTAINED WITHIN ECONOMIC STATEMENT ATTACHED FOLLOWING STGRATURE PAGE.

Lb. If you checked “General partnership,” “Limited partnership,” “Limited liability
company,” “Limited liability partnership” or “Joint venture” in response to Item A.1. above (Nature of
Disclosing Party), list below the name and ttle ofeach general partner, managing member, manager or

Page 2 of 13
‘any other person or entity that controls the day-to-day management of the Disclosing Party. NOTE:
ach legal entity listed below must submit an EDS on its own behalf,

Name Title

DN

2, Please provide the following information concerning each person or entity having a direct or

indirect beneficial interest (including ownership) in excess of 7.5% of the Disclosing Party. Examples
of such an interest include shares in a corporation, partnership interest in a partnership or joint venture,
interest of « member or manager in # limited libility company, or interest of a beneficiary of a trust,
estate or other similar entity. If none, state “None.” NOTE: Pursuant to Section 2-154-030 of the
‘Municipal Code of Chicago (“Municipal Code”), the City may require any such additional information
from any applicant which is reasonably intended to achieve full disclosure.

Name Business Address Percentage Interest in the
Disclosing Party

(ONE WoORED (100) PERCENT OF WLR BLOCK GROUP, INC. STOCK IS OWNED BY HER BLOCK, INC.

SECTION II - BUSINESS RELATIONSHIPS WITH CITY ELECTED OFFICIALS

Has the Disclosing Party had a "business relationship," as defined in Chapter 2-156 of the Municipal
Code, with any City elected official in the 12 months before the date this EDS is signed?

Yee &JNo

‘If yes, please identify below the name(s) of such City elected official(s) and describe such
relationship(s):

SECTION IV ~ DISCLOSURE OF SUBCONTRACTORS AND OTHER RETAINED PARTIRS
‘The Disclosing Party must disclose the name and business address of each subcontractor, attorney,

lobbyist, accountant, consultant and any other person or entity whom the Disclosing Party has retained

fr expects to retain in connection with the Matter, as well as the nature of the relationship, and the totel

Page 3 of 13
‘amount of the fees paid or estimated to be paid. The Disclosing Party is not required to disclose
‘employees who are paid solely through the Disclosing Party's regular payroll

“Lobbyist” means any person or entity who undertakes to influence any legislative or administrative
‘action on behalf of any person or entity other than: (1) 2 not-for-profit entity, on an unpaid basis, or (2)
himself. “Lobbyist” also means any person or entity any part of whose duties as an employee of
another includes undertaking to influence any legislative or administrative action.

If the Disclosing Party is uncertain whether a disclosure is required under this Section, the
Disclosing Party must either ask the City whether disclosure is required or make the disclosure.

Name Business Relationship to Disclosing Party Fees

(indicate whether Address (subcontractor, attorney, Gindicate whether
retained or anticipated lobbyist, ete.) paid or estimated)
to be retained)

THCLIDED WITHIN APPLICANTS EDS.

(Add sheets if necessary)

[J Check here if the Disclosing party has not retained, nor expects to retain, any such persons or
entities.

SECTION V ~CERTIFICATIONS
‘A, COURT-ORDERED CHILD SUPPORT COMPLIANCE,

Under Municipal Code Section 2-92-415, substantial owners of business entities that contract with
the City must remain in compliance with their child support obligations throughout the term of the

contract.

‘Has any person who directly or indirectly owns 10% or more of the Disclosing Party been declared in
arrearage on any child support obligstions by any Illinois court of competent jurisdiction?

(Yes ENo [No person owns 10% or more of the Disclosing Party.

1f-"Yes,” has the person entered into a court-approved agreement for payment of all support owed and
is the person in compliance with that agreement?

(Yes (No

Page 4 of 13
B. FURTHER CERTIFICATIONS

1, ‘The Disclosing Party and, ifthe Disclosing Party is « legal entity, all of those persons or entities
identified in Section ILB.1. of this EDS:

are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible o voluntarily
excluded from any transactions by any federal, state or local unit of government;

b. have not, within a five-year period preceding the date of this EDS, been convicted of a criminal
offense, adjudged guilty, or had a civil judgment rendered against them in connection with:
obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public (federal, state or local) transaction or
contract under # public transaction; # violation of federal or state antitrust statutes; fraud;
‘embezzlement; theft; forgery, bribery; falsification or destruction of records; making false
statements; or receiving stolen property;

6. are not presently indicted for or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity
(federal, state or local) with commission of any of the offenses enumerated in clause B.1.b. of
this Section V;

4. have not, within a five-year period preceding the date of this EDS, had one or more public
‘transactions (federal, state or local) terminated for cause or default; and

©, have not, within a five-year period preceding the date of this EDS, been convicted, adjudged
‘guilty, or found liable in a civil proceeding, or in any criminal or civil action, including actions
‘concerning environmental violations, instituted by the City or by the federal government, any
state, or any other unit of local government.

2. ‘The certifications in subparts 2, 3 and 4 concer:

+ the Disclosing Party,

‘any “Applicable Party” (meaning any party participating inthe performance of the Matter,
including but not limited to any persons or legal entities disclosed under Section IV, “Disclosure of
Subcontractors and Other Retained Parties");

+ any "Affiliated Entity” (meaning a person or entity that, directly or indirectly: controls the
Disclosing Party, is controlled by the Disclosing Party, ori, with the Disclosing Party, under
common control of another person or entity. Indicia of control include, without limitation:
interlocking management or ownership; identity of interests among family members, shared facilities
and equipment; common use of employees; or organization of a business entity following the
ineligibility of a business entity to do business with federal or state or local government, including
the City, using substantially the same management, ownership, or principals as the ineligible entity);
with respect to Applicable Parties, the term Affiliated Entity means 1 person or entity that directly or
indirectly controls the Applicable Party, is controlled by i, or, with the Applicable Party, is under
‘common control of another person or entity;

Page 5 of 13,
+ any responsible official of the Disclosing Party, any Applicable Party or any Affiliated Entity or
‘any other official, agent or employee of the Disclosing Party, any Applicable Party or any Affiliated
Entity, acting pursuant to'the direction or authorization of a responsible official of the Disclosing
Party, any Applicable Party or any Affiliated Entity (collectively “Agents").

‘Neither the Disclosing Party, nor any Applicable Party, nor any Affiliated Entity of either the
Disclosing Party or any Applicable Party nor any Agents have, during the five years before the date this
[EDS is signed, or, with respect to an Applicable Party, an Affiliated Entity, or an Affiliated Entity of an
Applicable Party during the five years before the date of such Applicable Party's or Affiliated Entity's
‘contract or engagement in connection with the Matter:

‘bribed or attempted to bribe, or been convicted or adjudged guilty of bribery or attempting to
bribe, « public officer or employee ofthe City, the State of Mlinois, ox any agency of the federal
goverament or of any state ot local government inthe United States of America, in that officer's
or employee's official capacity;

'. agreed or colluded with other bidders or prospective bidders, or been a party to any such
agreement, or been convicted or adjudged guilty of agreement or collusion among bidders or
prospective bidders, in restraint of freedom of competition by agreement to bid a fixed price or
otherwise; or

© made an admission of such conduct described in a. orb. above that is « matter of record, but
bhave not been prosecuted for such conduct; or

4. violated the provisions of Municipal Code Section 2-92-610 (Living Wage Ordinance),

3. Neither the Disclosing Party, Affiliated Entity or Applicable Party, or any of their employees,
officials, ageats or partners, is barred from contracting with any unit of state or local government as a
result of engeging in or being convicted of (1) bid-rigging in violation of 720 ILCS 5/338-3; (2)
bid-rotating in violation of 720 ILCS 5/33E-4; or (3) any similar offense of any state or of the United
States of America thet contains the same elements as the offense of bid-rigging or bid-rotating.

4. Neither the Disclosing Party nor any ASfilited Entity is listed on any of the following ists
maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department ofthe Treasury or the
Bureau of Industry and Security ofthe U.S. Department of Commerce or their successors: the Specially
Designated Nationals Lit, the Denied Persons Lis, the Unverified List, the Entity List and the
Debarred List.

5. The Disclosing Party understands and shall comply with (1) the applicable requirements of the

Governmental Ethics Ordinance of the City, Title 2, Chapter 2-156 of the Municipal Code; and (2) all
the applicable provisions of Chapter 2-56 of the Municipal Code (Office of the inspector General).

Page 6 of 13,
6. Ifthe Disclosing Party is unable to certify to any of the above statements in this Part B (Further
Centifications), the Disclosing Party must explain below:

Ifthe letters "NA," the word "None," or no response appears on the lines above, it will be conclusively
presumed that the Disclosing Party certified to the above statements,

. CERTIFICATION OF STATUS AS FINANCIAL INSTITUTION

For purposes ofthis Part C, under Municipal Code Section 2-32-455(b), the term “financial institution”
smeans a bank, savings and loan association, thrift eredit union, mortgage banker, morigage broker,
trust company, savings bank, investment bank, securities broker, municipal securities broker, securities
dealer, municipal securities dealer, securities underwriter, municipal securities underwrite, investment
trust, venture capital company, bank holding company, financial services holding company, ot any
licensee under the Consumer Installment Loan Act, the Sales Finance Agency Act, or the Residential
Mortgage Licensing Act. However, Winancial institution" specifically shall not include aay entity
‘whose predominant business isthe providing of tax deferred, defined contribution, pension plans to
public employees in accordance with Sections 403(b) and 457 ofthe Internal Revenve Code
{Additional definitions may be found in Municipal Code Section 2-32-455(0).)

1, CERTIFICATION
The Disclosing Party certifies that the Disclosing Party (chek one)
_ (1) RSM McGladrey Business Services, Inc. ovns an entity,
bis [isnot “" RSM kquico, Inc., that is « "Financial Institution”.

1 "financial institution” as defined in Section 2-32-435(b) of the Municipal Code.

2. Ifthe Disclosing Party IS a financi

institution, then the Disclosing Party pledges:

"We are not and will not become a predatory lender as defined in Chapter 2-32 of the Municipal
Code. We further pledge that none of our affiliates is, and none of them will become, a predatory
lender as defined in Chapter 2-32 of the Municipal Code. We understand that becoming a predatory
lender or becoming an affiliate of « predatory lender may result in the loss of the privilege of doing
business with the City.”

If the Disclosing Party is unable to make this pledge because it or any ofits affitiates (as defined in
Section 2-32-455(6) of the Municipal Code) is 2 predatory lender within the meaning of Chapter

Page 7 of 13
2-32 of the Municipal Code, explain here (sttach additional pages if necessary):

BOWE

Ifthe letters "NA," the word "None," or no response appears on the lines above, it will be
‘conclusively presumed that the Disclosing Party certified to the above statements,

D. CERTIFICATION REGARDING INTEREST IN CITY BUSINESS

Any words or terms that are defined in Chapter 2-156 of the Municipal Code have the same
‘meanings when used in this Part D.

1. In accordance with Section -156-110 of the Muniipsl Code: Does any offical or employee
of the City have a financial interest in his or her own aame or inthe name of any other person or
‘atity in the Matter?

Uy¥es AINo

NOTE: Ifyou checked "Yes" to Item D.1., proceed to Items D.2. and D.3. If you checked "No" to
Item D.1., proceed to Part E.

2. Unless sold pursuant to a process of competitive bidding, or otherwise permitted, no City
elected official or employee shall have a financial interest in his or her own name or in the name of
any other person or entity in the purchase of any property that ({) belongs to the City, or (ii) is sold
for taxes or assessments, or (ii) is sold by virtue of legal process at the Suit ofthe City (collectively,
"City Property Sale"). Compensation for property taken pursuant to the City's eminent domain power
does not constitute financial interest within the meaning of this Part D.

‘Does the Matter involve a City Property Sale?

(Ye No

3. Ifyou checked "Yes" to Item D.1., provide the names and business addresses of the City
officials or employees having such interest and identify the nature of such interest:

Name Business Address Nature of Interest

4, ‘The Disclosing Party further certifies thet no prohibited financial interest in the Matter will
bbe acquired by any City official or employee.

Page 8 of 13,
‘8, CERTIFICATION REGARDING SLAVERY ERA BUSINESS

‘The Disclosing Party has searched any and all records of the Disclosing Party and any and all
predecessor entities for records of investments or profits from slavery, the slave industry, or
slaveholder insurance policies from the slavery era (including insurance policies issved to
slaveholders that provided coverage for damage to or injury or death of their slaves) and has
disclosed in this EDS any and all such records to the City. In addition, the Disclosing Party must
disclose the names of any and all slaves or slaveholders described in those records, Failure to
‘comply with these disclosure requirements may make the Matter to which this EDS pertains voidable
by the City

Please check either 1. or 2. below. If the Disclosing Party checks 2., the Disclosing Party must
disclose below or in an attachment to this EDS all requisite information as set fort in that paragraph 2.

_X.1. The Disclosing Party verifies that (a) the Disclosing Party bas searched any and all records of
the Disclosing Party and any and all predecessor entities for records of investments or profits from
slavery, the slave industry, or slaveholder insurance policies, and (6) the Disclosing Party has found
10 records of investments or profits from slavery, the slave industry, or slaveholder insurance

policies and no records of names of any slaves or slaveholders.

___2, The Disclosing Party verifies that, asa result of conducting the search in step 1(e) above, the
Disclosing Party has found records relating to investments or profits from slavery, the slave industry,
or slaveholder insurance policies and/or the names of any slaves or slaveholders. The Disclosing.
Party verifies that the following constitutes full disclosure of all such records:

SECTION VI ~ CERTIFICATIONS FOR FEDERALLY-FUNDED MATTERS

NOTE: If the Matter is federally funded, complete this Sect
funded, proceed to Section Vi

VL If the Matter is not federally

A. CERTIFICATION REGARDING LOBBYING

1, List below the names of all persons or entities registered under the federal Lobbying
Disclosure Act of 1995 who have made lobbying contacts on behaif of the Disclosing Party with
respect to the Matter: (Begin list here, add sheets as necessary):

Page 9 of 13
(Af no explanation appears or begins on the fines above, or if the letters "NA" or if the word "None"
appear, it wil be conclusively presumed that the Disclosing Party means that NO persons or entities
registered under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made lobbying contacts on behalf of the
Disclosing Party with respect to the Matter.)

2. The Disclosing Party has not spent and will not expend any federally appropriated funds to
pay any person or entity listed in Paragraph A.1. above for his or her lobbying activities or to pay any
Person or entity to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, as defined
by applicable federal law, a member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an
employee of member of Congress, in connection with the award of any Federally funded contract,
‘making any federally funded grant or loan, entering into any cooperative agreement, orto extend,
‘continue, renew, amend, or modify eny federally funded contract, grant, loan, or cooperative
agreement

3. The Disclosing Party will submit an updated certification atthe end of each calendar quarter
in which there occurs any event that materially affects the accuracy of the statements and information
set forth in paragraphs A.1. and A.2. above,

If the Matter is federally funded and any funds other than federally appropriated funds have bees or
will be paid to any person or entity for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee
of any agency (as defined by applicable federal law), a member of Congress, an officer or employee
of Congress, or an employee of a member of Congress in connection with the Matter, the Disclosing
Party must complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, "Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in
accordance with its instructions. The form may be obiained online from the federal Office of
Management and Budget (OMB) web site at htp://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/grants/sfllin pdf,
linked on the page http://www. whitehouse. gov/omb/grants/grants_forms.htm.

4, ‘The Disclosing Party certifies that either: (i) itis not an onganization described in section
'301(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; or (i) its an organization described in section
'501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 but has not engaged and will not-engage in
“Lobbying Activities".

5. Ifthe Disclosing Party is the Applicant, the Disclosing Party must obtain certifications equal
{in form and substance to paragraphs A.1. through A.4. above from all subcontractors before it
awards any subcontract and the Disclosing Party must maintain all such subcontractors’ certifications
for the duration of the Matter and must make such certifications promptly available to the City upon
request.

B. CERTIFICATION REGARDING EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
If the Mater is federally funded, federal regulations require the Applicant and all proposed

‘subcontractors to submit the following information with their bids or in writing at the outset of
negotiations.

Page 10 of 13,
Is the Disclosing Party the Applicant?
yes bgNo

If "Yes," answer the three questions below:
1. Have you developed and do you have on file effirmative action programs pursuant to

applicable federal regulations? (See 41 CFR Part 60-2.)
(Yes [No

2. Have you filed withthe Joint Reporting Committe, the Director ofthe Office of Federal
Contract Compliance Programs, or the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission all reports due
under the applicable filing requirements?

[Yee [INo

3. Have you participated in any previous contracts or subcontracts subject to the
equal opportunity clause?
(Yes UNo

If you checked “No” to question 1. or 2. above, please provide an explanation:

SECTION VII— ACKNOWLEDGMENTS, CONTRACT INCORPORATION,
COMPLIANCE, PENALTIES, DISCLOSURE

‘The Disclosing Party understands and agrees thet:

A. By completing and filing this EDS, the Disclosing Party acknowledges and agrees, on behalf of,
itself and the persons or entities named in this EDS, thatthe City may investigate the
creditworthiness of some or all ofthe persons or entities named in this EDS.

B. The certifications, disclosures, and acknowledgments contained in this EDS will become part of
‘any contract or other agreement between the Applicant and the City in connection with the Matter,
whether procurement, City assistance, or other City action, and are material inducements to the City’s
execution of any contractor taking other action with respect to the Matter, The Disclosing Party
‘understands that it must comply with all statutes, ordinances, and regulations on which this EDS is
based,

C. The City's Governmental Ethics and Campaign Financing Ordinances, Chapters 2-156 and 2-164
of the Municipal Code, impose certain duties and obligations on persons or entities seeking City
contracts, work, business, or transactions. The full text of these ordinances and training program is
available on line at wovw.citvofchicago.org/Bthics, and may also be obtained from the City's Board
of Bthics, 740 N_Sedgwick St, Suite 500, Chicago, IL 60610, (312)-744-9660.. The Disclosing Party
‘must comply fully with the applicable ordinances,

Page 11 of 13
D, If the City determines that any information provided in this EDS is false, incomplete or
inaccurate, any contract or other agreement in connection with which it is submitted may be
rescinded or be void or voidable, and the City may pursue any remedies under the contract or
agreement (if not rescinded, void or voidable), at law, or in equity, including terminating the
Disclosing Party's participation in the Matter and/or declining to allow the Disclosing Party to
participate in other transactions with the City. Remedies at law for a false statement of material fact
‘may include incarceration and an award to the City of treble damages.

E. Its the City's policy to make this document available to the public on its Internet site and/or upon
request. Some or all of the information provided on this EDS and any attachments to this EDS may
bbe made available to the public on the Internet, in response to a Freedom of Information Act request,
or otherwise. By completing and signing this EDS, the Disclosing Party waives and releases any
possible rights or claims which it may have against the City in connection with the public release of
information contained in this EDS and also authorizes the City to verify the accuracy of any
information submitted in this EDS.

F. The information provided in this EDS must be kept current. In the event of changes, the
Disclosing Party must supplement this EDS up to the time the City takes action on the Matter. If the
‘Matter is a contract being handled by the City’s Department of Procurement Services, the Disclosing
Party must update this EDS as the contract requires

The Disclosing Party represents and warrants that:

G. The Disclosing Party has not withheld or reserved any disclosures as to economic interests in the
Disclosing Party, or as to the Matter, or any information, data or plan as to the intended use or
‘purpose for which the Applicant seeks City Council or other City agency action.

For purposes of the certifications in H.1. and H.2. below, the term "affiliate" means any person or
‘entity that, directly or indirectly: controls the Disclosing Party, is controlled by the Disclosing Party,
or is, with the Disclosing Party, under common control of another person or entity. Indicia of control
include, without limitation: interlocking management or ownership; identity of interests among
family members; shared facilities and equipment; common use of employees; or organization of a
business entity following the ineligibility of a business entity to do business with the federal
government or a state or local government, including the City, using substantially the same
management, ownership, or principals as the ineligible entity.

H.1. The Disclosing Party is not delinquent in the payment of any tax administered by the Hllinois
Department of Revenue, nor are the Disclosing Pasty or its affiliates delinquent in paying any fine,
fee, ax or other charge owed to the City. This includes, but is not limited to, all water charges,
sewer charges, license fees, parking tickets, property taxes or sales taxes.

H.2 _ Ifthe Disclosing Pasty is the Applicant, the Disclosing Party and its affiliates will not use, nor
permit their subcontractors to use, any facility on the U:S. EPA's List of Violating Facilities in
connection with the Matter forthe duration of time that such facility remains on the list,

Page 12 of 13,
3 If the Disclosing Party is the Applicant, the Disclosing Party will obtain from any
contractors/subeontracors hired of to be hired in connection with the Matter certifications equal in form
‘and substance to those in HL1, and H.2. sbove and will not, without the prior written consent ofthe City,
use any such contractor/subcontractor that does not provide such certifications or that the Disclosing
Party has reason to believe has not proved or cannot provide truthful certifications,

NOTE; If the Disclosing Party cannot cartify as to any of the items in H.1., HL2. or H3. above, an
explanatory statement must be atiached to this EDS.

(CERTIFICATION
‘Under penalty of perjury, the person signing below: (1) warrants that be/se is mthorize to execute this EDS

on behalf of the Disclosing Party, and (2) warrants that all certifications and statements contained in this EDS
‘are'tue, scourate and complete as ofthe date furnished to the City.

RSM MEGLADREY BUSINESS SERVICES, INC. Date: _ September 19, 2007
‘Print or type name of Disclosing Party)

AP

Gignbers)

R,_PETER, FONTAINE
‘Print or type name of person signing)

(@rint or type title of person signing)
Signe and sworn to bfre neon (te) 19-0" ny Pe tee nade
Cook county, Lu eer.s (sat)

Commission expires_03-02- OF

11/0195 Version
ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT ATTACHMENT

LEGAL STRUCTURE OF PROPOSER ORGANIZATION
Proposing entity's fullegal name is RSM McGladrey, In.

One hundred pervent (100%) of RSM McGladrey Inc's stock is owned by RSM McGladrey
Business Services, Inc

(One hundred percent (100%) of RSM McGladrey Business Services, Inc. sock is owned by H&R
Block Group, inc

(One hundred percent (100%) of H &R Block Group, Inc stock is owned by H&R Block nc

HAR Bloc, nc the utimale parent, HR Block, ns pubic traded,

“Two patos own in excess of 75% of AR Bloc, Inc. stock. Te two parties reas flows:
Percent of Stock Owned

Hanis Associates LP. 27,982,870 835%
Harrs Associates ine

Two North Casale Stret. Sute 500

‘Chicago, lines 60602-5780

Davis Selected Advisers, L.P.38,265,034 11.79%
2940 East Ela Road, Suite 10%
“Tuoson, arizona 65708

‘The remained ofthe HER Block, Inc. stock is owned by investors in percentage less than 7 5%.

RSM McGladrey, Inc.
(a subsidiary of RSM MeGladrey Busines Services, inc.)

‘Jufscicton of Incorporation: Delaware
Date of incorporation: 649

‘Name Change(s: Name changed from MGP Business Serves, Inc. 4o RSM
MoGlachey, in. effective 772788

(Dale Changed Status fromPC to General Business Corp: NIA
Filing No 9890029
Registered Agentin Jurisiction of Incorporation:

‘The Corporation Trust Company
‘Comporation Trust Center
‘ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT ATTACHMENT

1209 Orange Street
\Wimington, DE 19801,

Principal Ofice Address: 3600 American Boulevard West, Thi Foor
‘Bloomington, MN'S5431-4502

tur of Business: ‘Accounting and ober financial services.
(Class and Number of Share of Stock Authorize:

30,00 shares of common stock, $0.01 parva per share
Number of Shares lsued by Ciass and Shareholder)

4,000 shares issued to RSM McGladrey Business Services, Inc. {ka HRB Business
Services, Ine) on 6/8/89

‘Date of Annual Meeting of Shareholders {per Bylaws): June 1

Federal Employer Identification Number: 41-1944416

Directors:
Mark A. Emst
Steven Tat

Offcos:
Steven Tat Present
Cesar Soriano President, Financial Process Outsourcing
David M. Piece President Wealth Management
‘Thomas M. Key Chief Enterprise Services Oficer
Kimoa A. Moss Chie Human Resources Ofer
Joseph R. Topinka ‘Chie nlrmaton Officer
Artur. Smith Chief Marketing Oficer
‘Dovglas W. Opheim ‘Chit U.S. Chent Operations Offcer
Rene Ordogne CChiet Financial Offcer and Ciel of Stat
Wilam L Trobeck Executive Vice President and Treasurer
Joseph. Denis Executive Vie Presiden, Assurance Services
Fk Harrison Executive Vice President, Business Development
Rhard Noonan Executive Vice President, EU Operations
Thomas R. Siders Executive Vice President EU Operations
Daniel 6. gg Executive Vice President Financial lsttuions
Thomas G, Murphy Execute Vice President, Manufacturing
Tom Dobosenski Exocutve Vice President, National Consulting
J Dan Brooks Executive Vice President, Operations & Acquisitions

Michael L. Metz Executive Vice President, Tax Services
ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT ATTACHMENT

Palvca L Blockbun ‘Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications
R Peter Fontaine Senior Vice President. General Counsel and Secretary
soseph L. MeSpadiden Senior Vice resident, Marketing Operations and
Business Development

Mark Audino Senior Vice President, Marketing Stalegy and Research
Robert Gerardi ‘Senior Vice President, Marketing and Communicatons
Viki M,Lubben Assistant Secretary

James E. Karin Assistant Treasurer

Kennion K. Yano Assistant Treasurer

‘States in which Authorized o Transact Business:

‘50 slates: Alabama, Alaska, Aizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut,
Delaware, Dist. of Columbia, Frida, Georgia, Hawai, Idaho, Ilinos, Indiana, lowa,
Kansas, Kentucky, Lousiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota,
Mississippi, Missour, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New
Mexico, New York, North Caroina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsyani
Rhode island, South Carina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Vigna,
Washington, West Viginia, Wsconsin, Wyoming

Canada: Ontario (6a Freed Maxick Canada ABL Services)

RSM McGladrey Business Services, Inc.

{a subsidiary of HAR Block Group, inc.)

Jurisdiction of incorporation: Delaware

Date of incorporation: March 27, 1998

Filing No 981119500-2677142

Name Change: Name changed from HRB Business Services,
Inc. to RSM McGladrey Business Services, nc.
on 6/403.

Registered Agent in Jurisdiction of Incorporation:
The Corporation Trust Company
1208 Orange Street

Wiimington, DE 19601

Principal Office Address: 4400 Main Steet
Kansas Cty, Missouri 64111

ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT ATTACHMENT

Nature of Business: Holding Company
‘Class and Number of Shares of Stock Authorized:

Common Stock, $0.01 par value, 1,000 shares
Number of Shares Issued by Class and Shareholer(s):

Common Stock: 1,000 shares issued to HBR.
Block Group, lec.

Preferred Stock: None
Date of Annual Meeting of Shareholders (per Bylaws):

June tst ofeach year o,f legal hoday, on the next secular day folowing, at 10:00 am.

Federal Employer entiicaion Number: 43-181105
Directors:
Mark A-Emst
Steven Tait
Wiliam L.Trubek
Officers
Steven Tait President
Wiliam L. Trubeck Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Jetrey E. Nachbor Senior Vice President
Rene Ordogne ‘Senior Vice President
‘Act G. Smith Senior Vice President
Becky S. Shulman Senior Vice President and Treasurer
R.Peler Fontaine ‘Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Seoretary
Joseph R. Topinka ‘Assistant Vice President
Vicki M, Lubben Assistant Secretary
dames E. Karlin ‘Assistant Treasurer
Kennion K. Yano Assistont Treasurer

‘States in which Authorized to Transact Business:

Delaware, Missouri
ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT ATTACHMENT

H&R Block Group, Inc.

(e subsidiary of HBR Block, Inc)

Jurisdiction of Incorporation: Delaware

Date of incorporation: January 21,1983
Fling No 2323961

Registered Agent in Jurisdiction of Incorporation:
Gin Corporate Series, ne
Joyce Vere
300 Delaware Avenue
9 Foor
‘Wirington, DE 18601
Principal Office Adress
Suite 101
Tk House
Bayside Executive Park
West Bay Street and Bloke Road
P.O, BoxN-8220
Nassau, The Bahamas
Nature of Business: Holding Company
(Class and Number of Shares of Stock Authorized:
10,000 shares, Common Stock, par value $1.00 per share
‘Number of Shares Issued by Class and Shareholder):
100 shares issued to HBR Block, Ic
Date of Annual Meting of Shareholders (per Bylaws):

Third Wednesday in September or, i legal holiday, on
the next secular day folowing, at 10:00 am,

Federal Employer Identification Number: 191-0346323
ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT ATTACHMENT

Directors
Dionisio J. O'Aguilar
‘Andre Feldman
Rosalie Ann Kenney -
Bret G. Wison

Officers:
Bret . Wilson President
A. Elden Vice President and Assistant Secretary
Rosalie Ann Kenney Treasurer and Secretary

‘Sates in which Authorized to Transact Business:

Delaware

H&R Block, Inc.
timate Parent Company

<tuisdicon of Incorporation: Missouri
Date of incorporation ly 27,1985

Charter No 100085500

Name Change: Name changed fom United Business,

Incorporated, of Missouri on 11/218.
Registered Agent in Jurisciction of Incorporation:

‘Nicholas J. Spaeth

4400 Main Street

Kansas City, Missouri 64111,
Principal Office Address:

4400 Main Street

Kansas City, Mssour 64111

Nature of Business: Holding Company {Utimate Parent)
ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT ATTACHMENT

Cass and Number of Shares of Stock Authorized:

Common Stock, without par value: 800,000,000 shares
Preferred Sock, wihout par value: 6,000,000 shares

‘Number of Shares Issued by Ciass and Shareholders):

‘Common Stock: Publil-traded (number varies daly)
Preferred Stock: None

CUSIP No. (089671105
‘Date of Annual Meeting of Shareholders (per Bylaws):

First Wednesday in September
Federal Employer Identification Number: 44.0607856

Directors
‘Thomas M. Bloch
Richard C. Brooden
Jerry D. Cheales
Mark A. Emst
Henry F.Frigon
Robert A. Gerard
Roger W. Hale
Len J. Lauer
David Baker Lewis
‘Thomas D. Seip
Edward L. Shaw, Jt
Officers:
Mark A. Emmst ‘Chaiman ofthe Board, President and Chiel Executive Officer
Mare West ‘Group President, Commercial Markets
‘Wiliam L. Trubeck ‘Executive Vie President and Chief Financial Officer
Carol F. Graebner Executive Vice President and General Counsel
Rich Agar Senior Vice President and Chief Information Oficer
Brad C. Nversen ‘Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer
Becky 8, Shulman Senior Vice President and Treasurer
Ronald H. lr Senior Vice President, Communications
Jefrey E. Nachbor Senior Vice President. Corporate Controer
Tammy 8.Serai ‘Senior Vice President, Human Resources.
Bret. Wilson ‘Vice President and Secretary

Linda M. McDougall ‘Vice President, Communications
ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT ATTACHMENT

Christopher C, Wren Vice President, Corporate Development
Robert A, Weinberger Vice President Government Relatons
Nancy Frazee Assistant Vice President, intemal Audit
‘Andrew J. Somora Assistant Secretary

James E. Kern Assistant Treasurer

Kennion K. Yano Assistant Treasurer

‘States in which Authorized to Transact Business:

Missouri
CITY OF CHICAGO
ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT
AND AFFIDAVIT
SECTION I~ GENERAL INFORMATION
A, Legal name of Disclosing Party submitting this EDS. Include d/b/a! if applicable:

ER Block Group, Inc.

‘Check ONE of the following three boxes:

Indicate whether Disclosing Party submitting this EDS is:
1. [) the Applicant

OR

2. {af a legal entity holding 2 director indirect interest in the Applicant. State he legal name of the

Applicant in which Disclosing Party holds an interest: RSM McGladrey, Inc.
OR

3. (] a specified legal entity with aright of control (see Section 11B.1.b.) State the legal name of
the entity in which Disclosing Party holds aright of control: __

B. Business address of Disclosing Party

J West Bay Street & Blake Road, P. 0. Box ¥-8220
Nassau, The Bahamas

. Telephone: 312-634-3400 __Fax: (312) 634-3410 __Ernsil: Jarry. echaedel@raui com

D. Name of contact person: Larry W. Schaede

. Federal Employer Identification No. (if you have one): _51~0246329

F. Brief description of contract, transaction or other undertaking (referred to below as the "Matter") to
which this EDS pertains. (Include project number and location of property, if applicable):

Financial $e

‘Specification Yo

G. Which City agency or department is requesting this EDS?__Finance

If the Matter is » contract being handled by the City’s Department of Procurement Services, please
complete the following:

Specification #__ 42504 and Contract #

Vee 14s Page | of 13
‘SECTION II ~ DISCLOSURE OF OWNERSHIP INTERESTS
‘A. NATURE OF DISCLOSING PARTY

1, Indicate the nature of the Disclosing Party

() Person ) Limite liability company*
fc] Publicly registered business comporation _[] Limited liability partnership*

Privately held business corporation (1 Joint venture

[) Sole proprietorship UJ Not-for-profit corporation

{J General parinership* (isthe not-for-profit corporation also a 01(c)3))?
{Limited partnership yes UINo

(Trost Uy Otter (please specify)

* Note B.1.b below.

2. For legal entities, the state (or foreign country) of incorporation or organization, if appl

Dela

3. For legal entities not organized in the State of Ilinois: Has the organization registered to do
business in the State of Ilinois asa foreign entity?

Yes UNo UNA
B. IF THE DISCLOSING PARTY IS A LEGAL ENTITY:

1a List below the full names and titles of all executive officers and all directors of the-entity
For not-for-profit corporations, also list below all members, if any, which are legal entities. If there are
no such members, write "no members." For trusts, estates or other similar entities, lst below the legal

titleholder().

Name Title

‘SEE LIST CONTAINED WITIIN ECONOMIC STATIOGNT ATTACHED FOLLOWING SIGNATURE PAGE.

1b. If you checked “General partnership,” “Limited partnership,” "Limited liability
company,” “Limited liability partnership” or “Toint venture” in response to Item A.1. above (Nature of
Disclosing Party), list below the name and title of each general pariner, managing member, manager or

Page 2 of 13
any other person or entity that controls the day-to-day management of the Disclosing Party. NOTE:
Each legal entity listed below must submit an EDS on its own behalf.

Name Title

w/a

2. Please provide the following information concerning each person or entity having a direct or
indirect beneficial interest (including ownership) in excess of 7.5% of the Disclosing Party. Examples
of such an interest include shares in a corporation, partnership interest in a partnership or joint venture,
interest of a member or manager in a limited liability company, or interest of a beneficiary of a trust,
estate or other similar entity. If none, state “None.” NOTE: Pursuant to Section 2-154-030 of the
Municipal Code of Chicago (“Municipal Code”), the City may require any such additional information
from any applicant which is reasonably intended to achieve full disclosure.

Name Business Address Percentage Interest in the
Disclosing Party

E HUNDRED (1002) PERCENT OF BGR BLOCK GROUP, INC. STOCK 15 OWNED BY HER BLOCK, INC.

SECTION I

BUSINESS RELATIONSHIPS WITH CITY ELECTED OFFICIALS

Has the Disclosing Party had a “business relationship,” as defined in Chapter 2-156 of the Municipal
Code, with any City elected official in the 12 months before the date this EDS is signed?

Oye. &INo

If yes, please identify below the name(s) of such City elected official(s) and describe such
relationship(s):

SECTION IV ~ DISCLOSURE OF SUBCONTRACTORS AND OTHER RETAINED PARTIES
‘The Disclosing Party must disclose the name and business address of each subcontractor, attorney,

lobbyist, accountant, consultant and any other person or entity whom the Disclosing Party has retained

or expects to retain in connection with the Matter, as well as the nature of the relationship, and the total

Page3 of 13.
amount of the fees paid or estimated to be paid. The Disclosing Party is not required to disclose
-employees who are paid solely through the Disclosing Party's regular payroll.

“Lobbyist” means any person or entity who undertakes to influence any legislative or administrative
action on behalf of any person or entity other than: (1) a not-for-profit entity, on an unpaid basis, or (2)
‘himself. “Lobbyist” also means any person or entity any part of whose duties as an employee of
another includes undertaking to influence any legislative or administrative action,

Af the Disclosing Party is uncertain whether a disclosure is required under this Section, the
Disclosing Party must either ask the City whether disclosure is required or make the disclosure.

Name Business _Relationship to Disclosing Party Fees
{indicate whether Address (subcontractor, attorney, (indicate whether
lobbyist, ete.) paid or-estimated)

retained or antici
to be retained)

INCLUDED WITHIN APPLICANTS —DS.

(Add sheets if necessary)

[1 Cheek here if the Disclosing party has not retained, nor expects to retain, any such persons or
entities.

SECTION V ~ CERTIFICATIONS
‘A. COURT-ORDERED CHILD SUPPORT COMPLIANCE,

Under Municipal Code Section 2-92-41, substantial owners of business-entities that contract with
the City must remain in compliance with their child support obligations throughout the ¢erm of the

contract.

Has any person who directly or indirectly owns 10% or more of the Disclosing Party been declared in
arrearage on any child support obligations by any Illinois court of competent jurisdiction?

Yes FIN [No person owns 10% or more of the Disclosing Party

Af “Yes,” has the person entered into a court-approved agreement for payment of all support owed and
isthe perton in compliance with that agreement?

(Yes UNo

Page 4 of 13
B, FURTHER CERTIFICATIONS

1, The Disclosing Party and, if the Disclosing Party isa legal entity, all of those persons or entities
identified in Section II.B.1. of this EDS:

‘4. are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible or voluntarily
‘excluded from any transactions by any federal, state or local unit of government;

b. have not, within a five-year period preceding the date ofthis EDS, been convicted of a criminal
offense, adjudged guilty, or had a civil judgment rendered against them in connection with:
obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public (federal, state or local) transaction or
contract under a public transaction; a violation of federal or state antitrust statutes; fraud;
‘embezzlement; theft; forgery; bribery; falsification or destruction of records; making false
statements; or receiving stolen property;

©. are not presently indicted for or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity
(federal, state or local) with commission of any of the offenses enumerated in clause B.1.b. of
this Section V;

4. have not, within a five-year period preceding the date of this EDS, had one or more public
transactions (federal, state or local) terminated for cause or default; and

have not, within a five-year period preceding the date of this EDS, been convicted, adjudged
‘guilty, or found liable in a civil proceeding, or in any criminal or civil action, including actions
concerning environmental violations, instituted by the City or by the federal government, any
state, or any other unit of local government.

2. The certifications in subparts 2, 3 and 4 concern:

+ the Disclosing Party;
+ any “Applicable Party" (meaning any party participating in the performance of the Matter,
including but not limited to any persons or legal entities disclosed under Section IV, “Disclosure of
Subcontractors and Other Retained Parties

+ any “Affiliated Entity" (meaning a person or entity that, directly or indirectly: controls the
Disclosing Party, is controlled by the Disclosing Party, or is, with the Disclosing Party, under
‘common control of another person or entity. Indicia of contro! include, without limitation:
interlocking management or ownership; identity of interests among family members, shared facilities
and equipment; common use of employees; or organization of a business entity following the
ineligibility of a business entity to do business with federal or state or local government, including
the City, using substantially the same management, ownership, or principals as the ineligible entity);
‘with respect to Applicable Parties, the term Affiliated Entity means a person or entity that direetly or
indirectly controfs the Applicable Party is controlled by it, or, with the Applicable Party, is under
common control of another person or entity;

Page Sof 13
+ any responsible official of the Disclosing Party, any Applicable Party or any Affiliated Entity or
any other official, agent or employee of the Disclosing Party, any Applicable Party or any Affiliated
Entity, acting pursuant to the direction or authorization ofa responsible official of the Disclosing
Party, any Applicable Party or any Affiliated Entity (collectively "Agents").

‘Neither the Disclosing Party, nor any Applicable Party, nor any Affiliated Entity of either the
isclosing Party or any Applicable Party nor any Agents have, during the five years before the date this
EDS is signed, or, with respect to an Applicable Party, an Affiliated Entity, or an Affiliated Entity of an
Applicable Party during the five years before the date of such Applicable Party's or Affiliated Entity’
contract or engagement in connection with the Mater:

‘4, bribed oF attempted to bribe, or been convicted or adjudged guilty of bribery or attempting to
bribe, a public officer or employee of the City, the State of Illinois, or any agency of the federal
‘government or of any state or local government in the United States of America, in that officer's
‘or employee's official capacity;

'b. agreed or colluded with other bidders or prospective bidders, or been a party to any such
agreement, or been convicied or adjudged guilty of agreement or collusion among bidders or
prospective bidders, in restraint of freedom of competition by agreement to bid a fixed price or
otherwise; or

fc. made an admission of such conduct described in a. orb. above that is a matter of record, but
have not been prosecuted for such conduct; oF

4. violated the provisions of Municipal Code Section 2-92-610 (Living Wage Ordinance)

3. Neither the Disclosing Party, Affiliated Entity or Applicable Party, or any of their employees,
officials, agents or partners, is barred from contracting with any unit of state or local
result of engaging in or being-convicted of (1) bid-rigging in violation of 720 ILCS $/33E-3; (2)
bid-rotating in violation of 720 ILCS 5/33E-4; or (3) any similar offense of any state or of the United
‘States of America that contains the same elements as the offense of bid-rigging or bid-rotating.

4. Neither the Disclosing Party nor any Affiliated Entity is listed on any of the following lists
maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury or the
Bureau of Industry and Security of the U.S. Department of Commerce or theit successors: the Specially
Designated Nationals List, the Denied Persons List, the Unverified List, the Entity List and the
Debarred List.

5. The Disclosing Party understands and shall comply with (1) the applicable requirements of the

Governmental Ethics Ordinance of the City, Title 2, Chapter 2-156 of the Municipal Code; and (2) all
the applicable provisions of Chapter 2-56 of the Municipal Code (Otfice of the inspector General).

Page 6of 13
6. If the Disclosing Party is unable to certify to any of the above statements in this Part B-(Further
Certifications), the Disclosing Party must explain below:

Ifthe letters "NA," the word "None," or no response appears on the lines above, it will be conclusively
presumed that the Disclosing Party certified to the above statements

C. CERTIFICATION OF STATUS AS FINANCIAL INSTITUTION

For purposes of this Part C, under Municipal Code Section 2-32-455(b), the term "financial institution”
‘means a bank, savings and loan association, thrift, credit union, mortgage banker, mortgage broker,
trust company, savings bank, investment bank, securities broker, municipal securities broker, securities
‘dealer, municipal securities dealer, securities underwriter, municipal securities underwriter, investment
trust, venture capital company, bank holding company, financial services holding company, or any
licensee under the Consumer Installment Loan Act, the Sales Finance Agency Act, or the Residential
Mortgage Licensing Act. However, "financial institution” specifically shall not include any entity
whose predominant business is the providing of tax deferred, defined contribution, pension plans to
public employees in accordance with Sections 403(b) and 457 of the Internal Revenue Code.
(Additional definitions may be found in Municipal Code Section 2-32-455(0),)

1. CERTIFICATION
‘The Disclosing Party certifies that the Disclosing Party (check one)
is (isnot

“financial institution” as defined in Section 2-32-455(b) of the Municipal Code.

2, Ifthe Disclosing Party IS a financial institution, then the Disclosing Party pledges:

"We are not and will not become a predatory lender as defined in Chapter 2-32 of the Municipal
Code, We further pledge that none of our affiliates is, nd none of them will become, a predatory
lender as defined in Chapter 2-32 of the Municipal Code. We understand that becoming a predatory
leader or becoming an affiliate of a predatory lender may result in the loss of the privilege of doing
business with the City."

If the Disclosing Party is unable to make this pledge because it or any of its affiliates (as defined in
‘Section 2-32-455(b) of the Municipal Code) is a predatory lender within the meaning of Chapter

Page Tof 13
2.32 of the Municipal Code, explain here (attach additional pages if necessary)

Ifthe letters "NA," the word "None,” or no response appears on the lines above, it will be
‘conclusively presumed that the Disclosing Party certified to the above statements.

D, CERTIFICATION REGARDING INTEREST IN CITY BUSINESS

‘Any words or terms that are defined in Chapter 2-156 of the Municipal Code have the same
meanings when used in this Part D.

1, In accordance with Section 2-156-110 of the Municipal Code: Does any official or employee
of the City have a financial interest in his or her own name or in the name of any other person or
centity in the Matter?

(Yes i) No

NOTE: Ifyou checked "Ye:
Item D.1,, proceed to Part E.

to Item D.1., proceed to Items D.2. and D.3. If you checked "No" to

2. Unless sold pursuant to & process of competitive bidding, or otherwise permitted, noCity
elected official or employee shall have a financial interest in his or her own name or in the name of
‘any other person or entity in the purchase of any property that (i) belongs to the City, or (i) is sold
for taxes or assessments, or (ii) is sold by virtue of legal process atthe suit ofthe City (collectively,
“City Property Sale"). Compensation for property taken pursuant to the City's eminent domain power
does not constitute a financial interest within the meaning of this Part D.

‘Does the Matter involve a City Property Sale?
(yes INo

3. Ifyou checked "Yes" to Item D.1., provide the names and business addresses of the City
officials or employees having such interest and identify the nature of such interest:

Name Business Address Nature of Interest

4. The Disclosing Party further certifies that no prohibited financial interest in the Matter will
bbe acquired by any City official or employee.

Page 8 of 13,
E. CERTIFICATION REGARDING SLAVERY ERA BUSINESS

‘The Disclosing Party has searched any and all records of the Disclosing Party and any and all
predecessor entities For records of investments or profits from slavery, the slave industry, or
slaveholder insurance policies from the slavery era (including insurance policies issued to
slaveholders that provided coverage for damage to or injury or death of their slaves) and has
disclosed in this EDS any and all such records to the City. In addition, the Disclosing Party must
disclose the names of any and all slaves or slaveholders described in those records. Failure to
comply with these disclosure requirements may make the Matter to which this EDS pertains voidabie
by the City.

Please check either 1. or 2. below. If the Disclosing Party checks 2., the Disclosing Party must
disclose below or ia an attachment to this EDS all requisite information as set forth in that paragraph 2.

_x.1. The Disclosing Party verifies that (a) the Disclosing Party has searched any and all records of
the Disclosing Party and any and all predecessor entities for records of investments or profits from
slavery, the slave industry, or slaveholder insurance policies, and (b) the Disclosing Party has found,
no records of investments or profits from slavery, the slave industry, or slaveholder insurance
policies and no records of names of any slaves of slaveholders.

____2. The Disclosing Party verifies that, as a result of conducting the search in step 1(a) above, the
Disclosing Party has found records relating to investments or profits from slavery, the slave industry,
cr slaveholder insurance policies and/or the names of any slaves or slaveholders. The Disclosing
Party verifies that the following constitutes full disclosure of all such records:

SECTION VI CERTIFICATIONS FOR FEDERALLY-FUNDED MATTERS

NOTE: If the Matter is federally funded, complete this Section VI. Ifthe Mater is not Tederally
funded, proceed to Section VIL

A. CERTIFICATION REGARDING LOBBYING
1, List below the names of all persons or entities registered under the federal Lobbying.

Disclosure Act of 1995 who have made lobbying contacts on behalf of the Disclosing Party with
respect to the Matter: (Begin list here, add sheets as necessary):

Page of 13,
(if no explanation appears or begins on the lines above, or ifthe leters "NA" oF if the word "None"
appear, it will be conclusively presumed thatthe Disclosing Party means that NO persons or entities
registered under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made lobbying contacts on behalf of the
Disclosing Party with respect to the Matter.)

2, The Disclosing Party has not spent and will not expend any federally appropriated funds to
pay any person or entity listed in Paragraph A.1. above for his or her lobbying activities or to pay any
person or entity to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, as defined
by applicable federal law, a member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an
‘employee of a member of Congress, in connection with the award of any federally funded contract,
making sny federally funded grant or loan, entering into any cooperative agreement, or to extend,
continue, renew, amend, or modify any federally funded contract, grant, loan, or cooperative
agreement.

3. The Disclosing Party will submit an updated certification at theend of each calendar quarter
in which there occurs any event that materially affects the accuracy of the statements and information
set forth in paragraphs A.1. and A.2, above.

Ifthe Matter is federally funded and any funds other than federally appropriated funds have been or
will be paid to any person or entity for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee
of any agency {as defined by applicable federal law), a member of Congress, an officer or employee
of Congress, or an employee of a member of Congress in connection with the Matter, the Disclosing.
Party must complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, "Disclosure Form to Report Lobbyin,
accordance with its instructions. The form may be obtained online from the federal Office of
‘Management and Budget (OMB) web site at htp://www whitehouse gov/omb/grants/sfllin pdf,
linked on the page http:/www.whitehouse gov/omb/grants/grants_forms.html

4. The Disclosing Party certifies that either: (i itis not an organization described in section
501(e)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; or (i) it is an organization described in section
501(c)(4) ofthe Internal Revenue Code of 1986 but has not engaged and will notengage in
“Lobbying Activities”

5. Ifthe Disclosing Party is the Applicant, the Disclosing Party must obtain certifications equal
in form and substance to paragraphs A.1. through A.4, above from all subcontractors befor it
awards any subcontract and the Disclosing Party must maintain all such subcontractors certifications
forthe duration ofthe Matter and must make such certifications promptly available othe City upon
request

B. CERTIFICATION REGARDING EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
Ifthe Matter is federally funded, federal regulations require the Applicant and all proposed

subcontractors to submit the following information with their bids or in writing atthe outset of
negotiations.

Page 10 of 13,
4s the Disclosing Party the Applicant?
tyes UNo
If “Yes,” answer the three questions below:

1, Have you developed and do you have on file affirmative action programs pursuant to
applicable federal regulations? (See 41 CFR Part 60-2.)
(Yes No

2. Have you filed with the Joint Reporting Committee, the Director of the Office of Federal
Contract Compliance Programs, or the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission all reports due
‘under the applicable filing requirements?

(Yes [No

3. Have you participated in any previous con
equal opportunity clause?
(Yee [No

cts or subcontracts subject to the

If you checked “No” to question I. or 2. above, please provide an explanation:

SECTION VII ~~ ACKNOWLEDGMENTS, CONTRACT INCORPORATION,
COMPLIANCE, PENALTIES, DISCLOSURE

‘The Disclosing Party understands and agrees that:

A. By completing and filing this EDS, the Disclosing Party acknowledges and agrees, on behalf of
itself and the persons or entities named in this EDS, thatthe City may investigate the
creditworthiness of some or all of the persons or entities named in this EDS.

B. The certifications, disclosures, and acknowledgments contained in this EDS will become part of
any contract or other agreement between the Applicant and the City in connection with the Matter,
whether procurement, City assistance, or other City action, and are material inducements to the City's
‘execution of any contract or taking other action with respect to the Matter. The Disclosing Party
understands that it must comply with all statutes, ordinances, and regulations on which this EDS is
based.

C. The City’s Governmental Ethics and Campaign Financing Ordinances, Chapters 2-156 and 2-164
of the Municipal Code, impose certain duties and obligations on persons or entities seeking City
contracts, work, business, or transactions. The full text of these ordinances and a training program is
available on line at www.cityofchicago.org/Ethics, and may also be obtained from the City’s Board
of Ethics, 740 N. Sedgwick St., Suite $00, Chicago, IL 60610, (312) 744-9660. The Disclosing Party
‘must comply fully with the applicable ordinances.

Page 11 of 13

D. If the City determines that any information provided in this EDS is false, incomplete or
inaccurate, any contract or other agreement in connection with whieh itis submitted may be
rescinded or be void or voidable, and the City may pursue any remedies under the contract or
agreement (if not rescinded, void or voidable), at law, or in equity, including terminating the
Disclosing Party's participation in the Matter and/or declining to allow the Disclosing Party to
participate in other transactions with the City. Remedies at law for a false statement of material fact,
‘may include incarceration and an award to the City of treble damages.

E. It is the City’s policy to make this document available tothe public on its Internet site and/or upon
Fequest. Some or al of the information provided on this EDS and any attachments to this EDS may
bbe made available to the public on the Interne, in response to a Freedom of Information Act request,
‘or otherwise. By completing and signing this EDS, the Disclosing Party waives and releases any
possible rights or claims which it may have against the City in connection with the public release of
information contained in this EDS and also authorizes the City to verify the accuracy of any
information submitted in this EDS.

F, The information provided in this EDS must be kept current, In the event of changes, the
Disclosing Party must supplement this EDS up to the time the City takes action on the Matter. If the
Matter is a contract being handled by the City’s Department of Procurement Services, the Disclosing
Party must update this EDS as the contract requires,

‘The Disclosing Party represents and warrants that:

G. The Disclosing Party has not withheld or reserved any disclosures as to-economic interests in the
Disclosing Party, or as to the Matter, or any information, data or plan as‘o the intended use or
purpose for which the Applicant seeks City Council or other City agency action.

For purposes of the certifications in H.1. and H.2. below, the term “affiliate” means any person or
entity that, directly or indirectly: controls the Disclosing Party, is controlled by the Disclosing Party,
or is, with the Disclosing Party, under common control of another person or entity. Indicia of control
inelude, without limitation: interlocking management or ownership; identity of interests among
family members; shared facilities and equipment; common use of employees; or organization of a
business entity following the ineligibility of a business entity to do business with the federal
government or a state or local government, including the City, using substantially the same
management, ownership, or principals as the ineligible entity.

HLL. The Disclosing Party is not delinquent in the payment of any tax administered by the Illinois
Department of Revenue, nor are the Disclosing Party or its affiliates delinquent in paying any fine,
fee, tx or other charge owed to the City. This includes, but is not limited to, all water charges,
sewer charges, license fees, parking tickets, property taxes or sales taxes.

H.2 _ If the Disclosing Party is the Applicant, the Disclosing Party and its affiliates will not use, nor
permit their subcontractors to use, any facility on the U.S. EPA's List of Violating Facilities in
‘connection with the Matter forthe duration of time that such facility remains on the lis.

Page 12 of 13,
H.3 Ifthe Disclosing Party is the Applicant, the Disclosing Party will obtain from any
‘contractors/subcontractors hired orto be hired in connection with the Matter certifications equal in,
form and substance to those in H.1. and H.2. above and will not, without the prior written consent of
the City, use any such contractor/subcontractor that does not provide such certifications or that the
Disclosing Party has reason to believe has not provided or cannot provide truthful certifications.

NOTE: If the Disclosing Party cannot certify as to any ofthe items in H.1., H.2. or H.3. above, an
‘explanatory statement must be attached to this EDS.

CERTIFICATION
Under penalty of perjury, the person signing below: (1) warrants that he/she is authorized to execute

this EDS on behelf of the Disclosing Party, and (2) warrants that all certifications and statements
‘contained in this EDS are true, accurate and complete as of the date furnished to the City.

LR BLOCK GROUP, INC. Date 27 Aerek coor
‘Print or type name of Disclosing Party)

»
Au 27
aoe

R. Peter Fontaine

(Print or type name of person signing)

Senne Vee Pest, Boece! Gunsel, Secretary
(Print or type title of person signing)

Siang and wom obsfore men (nt) Mach 27, 2077 _ by Re feter fontaine ,

Sore Matcie— (tat).

Notary Public

Page 13 of 13,
EXHIBIT 6

LIST OF KEY PERSONNEL
Management Consulting
Name:

Larry Schaedel

Sharon Rice

Loretta Reed

David Gray

Mark Matejka

Caroline Gallagher
Sharon Williams

John Lincoln

Robert Kullkowski
Rhiannon Bakk- Hansen
‘Aleksandar Milicevic
Bill Buhmana

Actuarial
Name:

John Ritchie
Stacey Levine
Michael Morhun

Tax Support
Name

Zach Fortsch
Randal Webb

Gail Robertson

LIST OF KEY PERSONNEL

Title:
Management Consulting Team Lead
Management Consulting Project Lead
Management Consulting Serving Manager
“Management Consulting Serving Manager
“Management Consulting Serving Manager
Management Consulting Serving Manager
‘Management Consulting Senior Consultant
Cost Review and Segregation Project Lead
(Cost Review and Segregation Project Manager
‘Cost Review and Segregation Consultant

‘Cost Review and Segregation Consultant
Rish/Internal Control Project Lead

Title:
‘Actuary Team Leader
‘Actuarial Project Manager
Director of Actuarial Services

Title:
‘Tax Suppor Team Lead
‘Tax Support Manager
‘Tax Support Manager
Benefits Consulting
Name:

Mark Yhoudy

John Ritchie

Alicia Faust

Tite
Benefits Team Lead

Benefits Project Manager
Benefits Project Manager
‘crTy OF-cHICAGO
BOONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT
‘AND AFFIDAVIT

SECTION 1~ GENERAL INFORMATION
‘A, Loge anme of Disclosing Party ubmiiting tis EDS. Include d/bla/ if appBcable:

WAR Block, Inc.

‘Check ONE ofthe following three boxes:

Indieate whether Disclosing Party eibmating ls EDS ix:
1. 11 fe Applicant
on,
2. DW a logal entity holding « direct or indirect otoret in the Applicant. Stat the loge nami of the
Applicant in which Discloting Pary olds aninterest___ RIM Mecadrey, Tae.
OR, :
‘3. [] a spociSed Tegal entity wit eight of contol (0ee Section 1:B.1°b) State the ogi ame of
the entity in which Dindoning Party olde a xight of contol:

'B, Busou address of Disclosing Party: . 4400 Main Street

Eanaas City, Miosoort 64)
, Telephone: 312-634-3400 Fax: ($12) 634-3410 __ Bail; 1erxy-achaedelfrat.com
D, Neme of contact pervon: _Larzy W, Schaedel
2, Feder Buaployor Identificntion No. (i'you have one): __4-0607856

F. Briof description of contract, transaction or other undertaking (refecred to below as fhe "Matter”) to
“Which this EDS pertains, (laolde projct uber end location of property if applicable):

Speettteation No. 42504

, Which City agency or depertnent is equesing this 3DS7__Fisimce end. lane

If he Matter is contract being handled by the City's Department of Procurement Services, please

complete the following:

Spesifiation # _ 42504 end Contact #

et o6 Paged of 13
SECTION If ~ DISCLOSURE .OF OWNERSHIP INTERESTS
A. NATURS OF DISCLOSING PARTY

1, Indicate the nature of the Disclosing Party:

(] Person (Limited ibility company?
Jc) Publicly registered business corporation [] Limited libiity partnership’

[) Privately held business corporation (7 Joint venture

[1 Sole proprietorship (J Not-for-profit corporation

(] General partnership’ is the not-for-profit corporation alto & 501(c)(3))?
[] Limited parterthip* {1 ¥es TINo

{) Trust Ly Other (please specify)

* Note B.1.b below.
2; For logal entities, the state (oF fcteign countiy) of incorporation or organization, if epplicable:

Detaware

3. Forlogelenttin not organized isthe Stas of Dinos: Has the organization registred to do
bninesa in the Stato of Tinos as foreign enti?

Byes [No UNA
B. IF THE DISCLOSING PARTY IS A LEGAL ENTITY:

La, List below the fll names and titles of all executive officers anal directors ofthe entity,
‘For not-for-profit corporations, also list below all members, ifaxy, which are legal entities. I there are
‘bo such members, write "a0 members." For trusts, estates or other similar entities, list below the legel
tiieholder(). oo

Name Tie

‘SEE LEST CONTAINED WITKIN ROOHOKTC STATEMENT ATTACHED FOLLOWING STGRATURE PACK.

1b. “Ifyou checked "General partnership,” “Limited partaership,” “Limited linbility
compeny,” “Limited liability partuership" or “Joint venture” in response to Item A.1. above (Neture af
Disclosing Party), lst below the name and ttle of euch geaerel partner, managing member, manager of

Page 208
any other person or entity thet controls the day-to-day management of he Disclosing Party. NOTE:
‘Bach legal entity listed below must submit an EDS cn its own behalf.

Name Tide

wa

2. Please provide the following information concerning each person or entity baving « direct ot
indirect beneficial intrest (including ownership) in excess of 7.5% of the Disclosing Party. Examples
‘of such an interet include sharos in a corporation, permershp interest in a partnership or joint venture,
interest of a member or manager in a limited liability company, or interest of a beneficiary of a tust,
‘estate or other similar entity. Hf none, sate “Nons." NOTE: Pursuant to Section 2-154-030 of tke
Municipal Code of Caicago ("Municipal Code”), the City may require any such sdditional information
‘fom any applicant which is reasonably intended to achieve full disclosure,

Name ‘Business Address Peroeatage Interest in the
Disclosing Party

SECTION II — BUSINESS RELATIONSHIPS WITH CITY ELECTED OFFICIALS

His the Discloning Party had a "business relationship," as defined in Chapter 2-156 of the Municipal
Code, wids any City lected official inthe 12 months before the date this BDS is signed?”

[Yes £INo

‘yes, pleese identity below the name(s) of such Cty elected offiial(s) and describe such
elationship(s):

SECTION IV ~ DISCLOSURE OF SUBCONTRACTORS AND OTHER RETAINED PARTIES

‘The Disclosing Party must disclose the name and business address of each subcontractor, attorney,
Jobbyist, accountant, consultent and any otber person or entity whom the Disclosing Party bas retained
cor expects fo retain in connection withthe Matter, at woll asthe nature of the relationship, and the total

Page 3 of 13
‘amount of the fees puid or estimated to be paid. The Disclosing Party is not required to isclose
‘employees who are paid solely through the Disclosing Party's regular payroll.

“Lobbyist” means any porton or entity who undertakes to influence any legislative or administrative
‘action oa behalf of any person or entity other than: (1) a not-for-profit entity, on an unpaid basis, or (2)
‘imac. “Lobbyist” also means any person or entity any part of whose duties us en employee of
‘nother includes undertaking to influence any legislative or administrative action.

Ifthe Disclosing Party is uncertain whether a disclosure is required under this Section, the
Disclosing Party must either ask the City whether disclosure is required or make the disclosure

Name Busine _—Relaontip to Disclosing Party Fee
(Gadicste whether Address (subcontractor, attorney, Gadicate whether
retained or anticipated lobbyist 2) Paid or extimated)
to be reained)

IHCLUDED WITHIN APPLICANTS EDS.

(Add sheets if necessary)

[J Check here ifthe Disclosing party bas not retained, nor expecta to retain, any such persons or
extitien,

SECTION ¥ —CERTIFICATIONS
‘A. COURT-ORDERED CHILD SUPPORT COMPLIANCE,

Under Municipal Code Section 2-92-415, substantial owners of business entities that contract with
{Ge City most remain in compliance with thir child support obligations throughout the term of the
contact,

Has eny person who directly or indirectly owns 10% or more of the Diislosing Party been declared in
amreaage on any child sopportoblgnins by any Inds cour of competent jurisdiction?

(Yes EINo —_[] No person owns 10% or more of the Disclosing Party.

1f"Yea," has the person entered into a court-approved agreement for payment ofall support owed and
is the person in compliance with that agreement?

yee (Ne

Page 4 of 13
B, FURTHER CERTIFICATIONS

1, The Disclosing Party and, ifthe Disclosing Party i  logel entity, all of those persons or enition
ldontified in Section ILB.1. of tis EDS:

‘are aot presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible or voluntarily
excluded from any transactions by any federal, state or Tocal unit of government;

have not, within a five-year period preceding the date ofthis EDS, been coavicted of « criminal
offense, adjudged guilty, or bed « civil judgment rendered ageinst them in connection with:

| obtaining, etompting to obtain, or performing «public (federal, stato or local) transaction or

contract under» public tensactlon; a violation of federal or stale antitrust statute; fraud;

| ‘embezzloment; the; forgery; bribery; falsification or destruction of records; making fale

statements; or receiving stolen property;

{ ae not presenti indicted for or otherwise caiminally or cvily chergod by a governmenial entity

| (federal, state or local) with commission of any of the offenses enumerated in clause B.1.b. of

| this Section V5

4. have not, within a five-year period preceding the dats of this EDS, had one or more public
transactions (federal, state or local) terminated for cause or defult; and

have ao, within a five-year period preceding the dat of this BDS, been convicted, adjudg
arly, of found nbs ina civil proceeding, or in any criminal or civil actin, incinding actions
concerning environmental violations inatinted by the City orby the federal government, my
state, oF any other unit of local goversment

--. 2, The certifications in subparta2, 3 and 4 concera:

‘+ the Disclosing Party;

+ any “Applicable Party” meaning eny party prticipatng inthe performance of the Mater,
fnoluding but not Kimited to any persons or lege! entities discloned under Section IV, “Disclosure of
Subcontractors and Other Retained Petes");

_ ‘any Aflated Batity* (meaning a pers or eaity tht, directly or indirectly: conto the
Disclosing Party, ie contolled by the Disclosing Party, rir, with the Diaclosing Party, under
common contol of another person or entity. Tndicis of contol include, withou imitation:
interlocking management or ownership; identity of interests emong family members, shared facilities
snd equipment; common woe of employees; or organization of a business eatity following the
ineligibility of «business entity to do busisess with federal or tat o local government, including
the Cty, using substantially the same management, ownership, or principals es the inaligible enti);
with respect to Applicable Parte, the term Afiinted Baty means a pervon or entity tht deel or
indirectly controls the Applicable Party, is contolled by it, or, with the Applicable Party, is under
common control of another pertoa or ety,

"Page 5 of 13,

+ any response official ofthe Disclosing Party, any Applicable Party or any Affiliated Entity ot
any other official, agent or employee of the Disclosing Paty, any Applicuble Party or any Afflintad
Batty, acting pursuent tthe direction or authorization of a responsible official of the Disclosing
Party, any Applicable Party or any Affiliated Entity (collectively "Agents"), -

‘Neither the Disclosing Party, nor any Applicable Party, nor any Affiliated Entity of either the
Disclosing Party or any Applicable Party nor any Agents have, daring the ive years before the date this
'BDS is signed, or, with respect to an Applicable Party, an Affiliated Entity, or an Affiliated Entity of an
‘Applicable Paty during the five years before the date of such Applicable Party's or AfBilinted Bntity's
‘contractor engagement in connection with the Matter:

1 luibed or atiompted to bsibe, or been convicted ot adjudged guilty of bribery or atempting to
‘abe, a public officer or employee ofthe City, the State of Lino, or any agency of the feral
goveramentor of any sate or lal government in the United States of Americ, in tat office's
coremployecs official capacity;

1b agreed or colluded with other bidders or prospestive bidders, or been party to any sch
agreement, or been convicted or adjudged guilty of agreement or collusion among bidder or
Prospective bidders in restraint of freedom of competition by agreement to bid a fied price or
sitberwise; or

made an admission of such conduct described in a or. above thet is « matter of recor, but
‘have not been prosecuted for such conduct; or

~~ vient the provisions of Municipal Code Section 7-92-610 (Living Wege Ordinance)

3, Neithér the Disclosing Party, Affiiated Entity or Applicable Party, or any of their employees,
officals agents or parters, is barred from contacting with any unit of state or local governmest as 8
revalt of engaging in or being convicted of (1) bid-igging in violation of 720 ILCS 5/33B3; (2)
bid-rotating in violation of 720 LCS 5/33E-4; or (3) any similar offease of any state or of the United

4 States of America that contains the same elements as the offense of bid-rgging or bid-rotating.

4. Neither the Disclosing Party nor any AfBiited Entity is listed om aay of the following lists,
rmuinained bythe Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Depertmeat of the Treasury orth
Bureau of industry and Security ofthe U.S, Department of Commerce or their successors: he Specially
Designated Natcoals List, the Denied Persons Lit, the Unverified List, tbe Bait List end the
Debared List

5. The Disciosing Party understands and shall comply with (1) the applicable requirements of the
Governmental Bthics Ordinance of the City, Title 2, Chapter 2-156 of the Municipal Code; and (2) all
the applicable provisions of Chapter 2-56 of the Municipal Code (Office of the Inspector Genera).

Page 6 of 13
6, Ifthe Disclosing Party is unable to certify to any of the above statements in this Part B (Further
Certification), the Disclosing Party must explain below:

the letters "NA," the word "None," or no response appears on the lines above, it will he conchusively
‘presumed tha the Disclosing Party ertfied to the above sttemants

C. CERTIFICATION OF STATUS AS FINANCIAL INSTITUTION

For purposes of this Part C, under Municipal Code Section 2-32-455(b), the term "financial intiation*
scans « bank, sevings and loen essocieton, thi, credit union, mortgage banker, mortgage broker,

“ant company, savings bank, ivestment benk, securities broker, munioipal securities broker, ecurtee
<ealer, municipal securities dealer, securities underwriter, municipal securities underwriter, investment
‘Wit, venture capital company, bank holding company, fanclal services holding company, or xy
‘vensee under the Consumer Installment Loan Act, tbe Sales Finance Agency Act, or the Residential
Mortgage Licensing Act. However, "financial insttuton® specificelly shall not inchuds any entity
‘hove predominant business is the providing of tx deferred, defined contribution, pension plans to
‘Public employees in accordance with Sections 403(b) and 457 ofthe Interal Revenue Code.
(Additonal definitions may be found in Municipal Code Section 2-32-455(6).)

1, CERTIFICATION

~The Digolosing Party certifies that the Disclosing Party (check one)
ie? ime ~ cam amen)
"sani iason” es defined in Seton 232-455() ofthe Municipal Code,
2+ eth Disclosing Party 1S « Sania ination, tea the Ditcoring Pasty pledge:
Weare notandwillnot become & prety ener a defiodin Caper 2-32 ofthe Murispal
Code, We further pledge that none of our affiliates is, and none of them will become, a predatory
Inndor as defined in Chapa 2-92 ofthe Manipal Code. We undentand tat becoming x prodsary
Jeadér or becoming an affiliate of « predatory lender may result in the loss of the privilege of doing
‘business with the City."

If the Disclosing Party is wnable to make this pledge because itor aay ofits afiliates (ts defined in
Seotion 2-32-455(b) of the Municipal Code) isa predatory lender within the meaning of Chapter

Page T of 13,
D. CERTIFICATION OF STATUS AS FINANCIAL INSTITUTION
(ATTACHMENT)

1. CERTIFICATION

The Disclosing Party Certifies that the Disclosing Party ig a “financial institution” as

defined in Section 2-32-455(b) of the Municipal Code,

8) HAR Block Group, Inc. owns RSM McGladrey Business Services, Inc. which
owns an entity, RSM Equico, nc., that is a “Financial Institution”.

b) HAR Block Group, Inc. owns RSM McGladrey Business Services, Inc, which
‘owns an entity, Birchtree Financial Services, ne. that is a “Financial
Institution’
2-32 of the Municipal Code, explain ere (attach addisional pages if necetsary):

[the letters "NA," the word "None," or no response sppesrs onthe lines above, it will be
conclusively presumed thatthe Disclosing Paty certified to the above statements.

D.-CERTIFICATION REGARDING INTEREST IN CITY BUSINESS

‘Any words of terms that are defined in Chaptar 2-156 of the Municipal Code hive the sume
‘meanings when ured in tis Part D.

1, In accordanoe with Section 2-156-110 of the Municipal Code: Doce any offical or employes
of the City have a nancial intrest in his or her own name or in the name of any other person or
entity in the Metter?

(ver No

NOTE: Ifyou checksd "Yes" to Item D.1, proceed to Items D.2. and D.3, If you checked "No* to
Item D.1., proceed to Part B,

2. Unless sold pursuant toa process of competitive bidding, orotherwise permitted, no City
lected officiel or employse shall have a financial intrest in his or her own name or in the name of:
any other person or entity in the purchase of any property that (i) belongs to the City, or (i) i sold
for texes or assessment, oF (ji) is ald by virtus of legal process atthe suit ofthe City (collectively,
"City Property Sale"). Compensation for property taken pursuant tothe City’s eminent domain power
does not conaitte« financial intrest witha the meaning of this Pert D.

‘Does the Matter involve a City Property Sale?
(yee FINo

3._ Ifyou checked "Yes" to Item D.1, provide the names and business addresses of the City
officials or employees heving such interoat and identify the nature of such intrest

Name Business Address Natur of interest

4, The Disclosing Party further certifies thet no prohibited financial interest a the Matter will
be acquired by axy City official or employee

Page Bot 13
8, CERTIFICATION REGARDING SLAVERY BRA BUSINESS

‘The Disclosing Party has searched any and all ecords of the Disclosing Party and eny end all
‘predecessor entities for records of investments or profits from slavery, the dave industry, or
slaveholder insurance policies from the slavery es (including insurance polities istued to
slaveholders that provided coverage for damage toot injury or death of their slavet) and bas
disclosed inthis BDS any and all such records to the City, In addition, the Disclosing Party must
disclose the sames of any and all eiaves or slavebolders desctibed in those records. Failure to
comply with theve disclosure requirements may make the Matter to which this EDS pertains voidable
‘by the City.

Please check either 1. or 2. below. If the Disclosing Party checks 2., the Disclosing Party must
disclose below or in en attachment io this EDS all requisite information asset fort in that paragraph 2.

4.1. The Disclosing Party verifies tat (0) the Disclosing Party hus searched any and all records of
{he Disclosing Pety end any end ell predecessor entities for records of investments or profits from
slavery, the slave industry, or slaveholder insurance policies, nd (b) the Dincloing Party has found
‘no records of investments or profits from slavery, te save industry, or slavebolder insurance
‘polises and no records of names of any saves o slavsholées,

__2 The Disclosing Paty verifies that, us a result of conducting the search in step 1(8) above, the
‘ibloning Party has found seoords relating  inveetments or profits from saver, te slave indussy,
orslaveholder insurance policies end/or the names of my saves or laveholders. The Disclosing
‘Party verifes ha the following consists full disclosure of al uch records:

SECTION VI ~ CERTIFICATIONS FOR FEDERALLY-FUNDED MATTERS

NOTE: Ifthe Matter is federally funded, complete this Section VI. If the Matter is not federally
‘funded, proceed 1 Section VIL

A. CERTIFICATION REGARDING LOBBYING
1. Listbelow the names ofall persoas or entities registered under the federal Lobbying

Discloture Act of 1995 who have made lobbying contacts on behalf of the Discloning Party with
respect o the Matter: (Begin list bere, add sheets os necessary):

“Paged of 13
(Qf no explanation appears or begin on th Lines ubove, or i the letter "NA" or ifthe word "None"
pens it will be conclusively presumed that the Disclosing Party means teat NO persons or entities
registered under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made lobbying contacts on behalf ofthe
‘Disclosing Party wit respect tothe Matter)

2, The Disclosing Party has not spent and will not expend any federally appropriated funds to
pay any person or entity Listed in Paragraph A.1. above for his or he lobbying activities orto pey any
‘person or entity to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employes of any agency, as defined
‘by applicable fedora lew, a member of Congres, an officer or employee of Congress, or un
employes of a member of Congress, in comnection with the award of any federally funded contract,
waking any federally funded grantor loan, entering into any cooperative sgreement, or to extend,
continue, renew, amend, or modify any federally funded coatract, grant, loan, or cooperative
apeement.

3, "The Disclosing Party will submit an upéated certification atthe end of each calendar quarter
in which there oocurs any vent tat materially affects the accuracy ofthe statements and information
set forh in paragraphs A.1. end A2. ebove,

foe Matter is federally inded and any finds other than federally appropriated funds bave been or
will be pld to any pero or entity for influencing or atzmpting to infuence an officer or employee
‘of any agency (as defined by applicable federal law), a member of Congres, en officer or employ
of Congress, or m employee ofa member of Congres in connection withthe Mati, the Disclosing
‘Party must complete end submit Sundard Fors-LLL, "Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in
sccoréanée with is instructions. The form may be obtained online from the federal Offic of
Management end Budget (OMB) web sit at hip:/wwe.whiahouse gov/omb/grantasflin. pd,
linked on the page htp/www whitehouse govlomb/graste| gant forms:himl.

4.” The Disclosing Party coritis that either: (j) itis aot an organization described in section
'501(e\4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; or (i) it isan organization described jn section
501(¢X64) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 but has not engaged and will not engage in
“Lobbying Activiti

5. Ifthe Disclosing Party isthe Applicant, the Disclosing Party must obtain certifications equal
inform and substance to paragraphs A.1. through A.4, above from all subconttactors befor it
sswerds any subcontract and the Disclosing Party must maintain all such gubcontractory certifications
forthe duration of the Matter and must make such certifications promptly available tothe City upon,
request.

B, CERTIFICATION REGARDING EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
the Mater is federally funded, federal regulations require the Applicant and ell proposed

subcontractors to submit the following information with ther bids or in writing atthe outset of
‘egotiations,

Page 10 7 13
‘Is the Disclosing Party the Applicant?

ves No
ees)" axewer the three questions below:

1, Have you developed and do you have on file affirmative action programms pursuant to
applicable federal regulations? (See 41 CFR Part 60-2.)
(Yes (No

2, Have you filed withthe Joint Reporting Committee, the Director of the Office of Federal
Contract Compliance Programs, or the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission all reports due
tinder te applicable filing requirements?

(Yee UNo

3. Have you patcipsted in any previous contacts or suboosiractsexbject tothe
‘equal opportunity clase?
(Yen UNe

Ifyou checked “No” to question 1. or 2. above, please provide an explanation:

SECTION VII— ACKNOWLEDGMENTS, CONTRACT INCORPORATION,
(COMPLIANCE, PENALTIES, DISCLOSURE

‘The Disclosing Party understands and egroes that:

‘A. By completing and filing this EDS, the Disclosing Party acknowledges and agrees, on bebalf of
itself andthe persons or entities named in ths EDS, tat the City mey investigate the
creditworthiness of some or all ofthe persons or entities named in this EDS,

B. The certifications, disclosures, end acknowledgments contxinod ia this EDS will become past of
‘any contract o other sgreement between the Applicent and the ity in comection with the Mer,
‘whether procurement, City assistance, of other City action, and are material inducements tothe City's
execution of any contractor taking other action with respect to the Matter. The Disclosing Party
‘understands that it must comply with all staate, ordinances, and regulations on which this EDS is
based.

©. The City's Goveramental Eihice and Campaign Financing Ordinances, Chapter 2-156 and 2-164
ofthe Municipal Code, impose certain duties end obligations ox persons or entities seeking City
contracts, work, busines, o transactions, Ti full text ofthese ordinances and a taining progr it
availble online at wor ctvofchiago org/Bihiog, and may alo be obtained Som the City's Bord
of Biles, 40 N. Sedgwick St, Ste 500, Choa, I 60610, (12) 74-9660. The Disclosing Paty
smoot comply Fly Wit We applcabie ordienees,

Page IL of 13

D. If the City determines that eny information provided inthis EDS is false, incomplete or
“inaccurate, xy contractor other agreement in connection with which itis wubmtted may be
rescinded or be void or voidable, and the City may pire exy remedies under the contract or
agreement (if not rescinded, void ot voidable), at law, o inequity, including terminating the
Disclosing Party participation inthe Matter endfor declining to allow the Disclosing Party to
‘participate in otber transactions withthe City. Remedies a lnw for «fuse statement of material fact
say inckude incarceration and an award tothe City of teble damages.

B. tie the Citys policy to make this document available tothe public on its Intamet site and/or upon
request, Some of all of the information provided on ths EDS and any atachments to this EDS may
bbe made available to the public onthe Internet, in response to Freedom of Information Act request,
or otherwise. By completing end signing ths BDS, te Disclosing Party waives and releases any
possible rights or claims which it may bave against the City in connection with the public release of
information contained in this EDS and elso authorizes the City to verify the accuracy of eny
‘information submitted inthis EDS.

The information provided inthis EDS must be kept current, Inthe eveat of changes, the
Disclosing Party must supplement this EDS up tothe time the City takes action on the Matter Ifthe
Matter isa contract being handled by the City's Deperment of Procurement Services, the Disolosing
‘Party must update this BDS as the contract requires.

‘The Disclosing Party represents and warrants thet:

G. The Disclosing Pacty bes not withheld or reserved any disclosures as to economic interests in the
Discloeing Party, or as to the Matter, or any information, ata or plan as to the intended use or
‘purpose for which the Applicant seeks City Council or other City agency action.

For purposes of the certification in H.1. and H.2. below, the term "affiliate" means any person or
eatiy tet, direc or indirectly: controls the Disclosing Paty, is contoled by the Disclosing Paty,
cris, with the Disclosing Party, under common contol of another pecton or entity. India of costal
inchde, without limitation: inteloskiag management or owaembip;dentty of intrest among
family members; shared facilities and equipment common use of employees; or organization of &
business entity following the inéligibility of «busines eny to do busines with the federal
‘government or «stat of local goverament, including the Ciy, using ubetantaly the seme
management, ownership, or principals asthe ineligible enti.

HLL, The Disclosing Party isnot delinqueit in the payment of any tax tdeninistered by the Iinois
Department of Revenue, nor are the Disclosing Pury or it affiliates delinquent in paying any fine,
fe, tax om other charge owed to the City. This includes, but isnot limited to, all water charges,
sewer charges, license fees, packing tickets, property txxes or sale taxes.

H2 ifthe Disclosing Party is the Applicant, the Disclosing Party and its affiliates will not use, not
‘pert their subcontractors to use, any facility on the U.S, EPA's List of Violating Facilities in
Connection with the Matter forthe duration of time thet such facty remains on the List.

Page 120 13> ——— -
H.3 If the Disclosing Party is the Applicant, the Disclosing Party will obtain from any
contractors/subcontractors hired orto be hired in connection with the Matter certifications equal in
form and substance to those in H.1. and H.2. above and will not, without the prior written consent of
the City, use any such contractor/subcontractor that does not provide such certifications or that the
Disclosing Party has reason to believe has not provided or cannot provide truthful certifications.

‘NOTE: Ifthe Disclosing Party cannot certify as to any of the items in H.1., H.2. or H.3. above, an
‘explanatory statement must be attached to this EDS.

CERTIFICATION
Under pensity of perjury, the person signing below: (1) warrants that he/she is authorized to execute

this EDS on behalf of the Disclosing Party, and (2) warrants that all certifications and statements
contained in this EDS are true, accurate and complete as ofthe date furnished to the City,

Mix ocr, 1H. pus; 2p M7 mnck 2003
Grint or ope name of Disclosing Panty)

By:

D4 2? ——

(Gign here)

Pig ype sab PeeFentonigning)

* Grint or iype litle of person signing) —

signed and sworn to before me on (March 27**, 2007, vy _R. Peter Fontaine ,
7 20

a a le

Notary Public

Page 13 of 13
ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT ATTACHMENT

LEGAL STRUCTURE OF PROPOSER ORGANIZATION
Proposing entity's fullegal name is RSM McGladrey, Inc.

One hundred percent (100%) of RSM MoGladrey Inc's stock is owned by RSM McGladrey
Business Services, Inc

(One hundred percent (100%) of RSM McGladrey Business Services, Inc. stock is owned by HER
Block Group, ne

‘One hundred percent (100%) of & R Block Group ne stocks owned by HAR Block ic

HER Bock, nc. he timate parent HAR Bloc, Ic publ ated

“Two paties own n excess of 75% of HBR Boo, Ic. stock, The two pares ae as flows
Percent of Stock Owned

Haris Associates LP. 27,362,870 835%
Hams Assocates Inc.

‘Two Noh LaSalle Steet Suite £00,

Cheagoliois 606025790

Davis Selected Advisers, LP.38.265.934 11.70%

2049 East Elvira Road, Suite 10%
Toeson, Arizona 85708

‘The remained ofthe HAR Block, In. stocks owned by investor in percentage less than 75%.

RSM McGladrey, Inc.
(2 subsidiary of RSM McGladrey Business Services, Inc.)

<Jasdicton of Incorporation: Delaware

Date of incorporation: 61499

‘Name Chango(s): Name changed from MGP Business Services, In. to RSM
McGladrey, Inc, efectve 7798

Date Changed Status rom PC to General Business Corp: NIA

Fling No: ‘9900028

Registered Agent in Jurisdiction of Incorporation:

‘The Corporation Trust Company
Corporation Trust Center
ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT ATTACHMENT

1209 Orange Street
Wilmington, DE 19801

Principal Ofice Address: 360 American Boulevard West, Third Floor
Bloominglon; MN 55431-4502

Nature of Business: ‘Acoounting and other nancial serices.
(Cass and Number of Shares of Stock Authorized:

30,000 shares of common stock, $0.01 pa value per share
Number of Shares Issued by Class and Shareholer(s}:

1,000 shares issued to RSM McGladrey Business Senfces, In. (h/a HRB Business
Services, Inc.) on 6/99

Dale of Annual Meeting of Shareholders (per Bylaws): June 1st
Federal Employer Kenificaton Number: 41-1944416

Directors:
Mark A, Emst
Steven Tat

Oficars:
Steven Tait President
Cesar Soriano President, Financial Process Outsourcing

~ David M. Perce President, Wealth Management
Thomas M. Key Chief Enterprise Services Officer
Kimpa A. Moss Chief Human Resources Officer
Joseph R. Topiaka Chie information Oficer
‘arthur G. Smith Chief Marketing Officer
Douglas W. Opheim Chief U.S. Cent Operations Officer
Rene Ordogne, CChiet Financial Officer and Chie of tat
Wiliam L.Trubeck Exocutve Vice President and Treasurer
Joseph L. Demis Execute Vice President, Assurance Services
ke Harrison Executive Vice President, Gusiness Development
Richard Noonan Executive Vice President, EU Operations
Thomas R. Siders Executive Vice President, EU Operations
Daniel G. Trigg Executive Vice President, Financial institutions
Thomas G. Murphy Executive Vice President, Manufacturing
‘Tom Dobosonski Execute Vice President, National Consulting
4J.Dan Brooks Executive Vice President, Operations & Acquisitions

Michael L Metz Executive Vice President, Tax Services
ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT ATTACHMENT

Patria. Blackburn ‘Senior Vie President, Corporate Communications

R Peter Fontaine Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

Joseph L. MeSpadden Senior Vio President, Marketing Operations and
Business Development

Mark Audino ‘Senior Vice President, Marketing Strategy and Research

Robert Gerardi Senior Vice President, Marketing and Communications

Vicki M. Lubben: Assistant Secretary

James E. Kalin ‘Assistant Treasurer

Kennion K. Yano Assistant Treasurer

States in which Authorized lo Transact Business:

~ 50 states: Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, Caffomia, Colorado, Connecticut,
Delaware, Dist. of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Hawai, idaho, lino, indiana, lowa,

Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Messachusets, Michigan, Minnesota,

Mississipp, Missour, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New
Mexico, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania,

Rhode isand, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia,

Washington, West Veginia, Wisconsin, Wyoming

Canada: Ontario (bla Freed Maxick Canada ABL Serves)

RSM McGladrey Business Services, Inc.

(a subsidiary of HAR Block Group, nc.)
Jurisdiction of incorporation

Dale of incorporation:

“Fling No:
Name Changi

Registered Agent in Jurisdiction of Incorporation:

Principal Office Addvess:

Delaware
March 27, 1998
9811 19500-2877142

‘Name changed from HRB Business Services,
Inc. to RSM McGladrey Business Services, Inc.
on 64/03,

‘The Corporation Trust Company
$209 Orange Street
\Wiminglon, DE 19601

4400 Main Sueet
Kansas City, Missouri 64111
ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT ATTACHMENT

Nature of Business: Holding Company
(Cass and Number of Shares of Stock Authorize:

‘Common Stock, $0.01 par value, 1,000 shares
Number of Shares issued by Class and Shareholde():

Common Stock: 1,000 shares issued to HBR.
Block Group, Inc.

Prefered Stock None
Date of Annual Meeting of Shareholders (per Bylaws)
June {st of each year or, i legal holiday, onthe next secular day folowing, at 10:00 am.

Federal Employer entiation Number: 43-181105
Directors:
Mark A. Emst
Stoven Tait
‘iam L.Trubeck
Offers:
Steven Tait President
Wiliam L. Trubock Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Jefrey E. Nachbor Senior Vice President
Rene Ordogne Senior Vice President
Arthur G. Smith Senior Viee President
Becky S. Shulman Senior Vice President and Treasurer
R.Peler Fontaine ‘Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
Joseph R. Topinka Assistant Vice President
Vicki M, Lubben Assistant Secretary
James E. Karin Assistant Treasurer
Keanion K. Yano Assistant Treasurer

‘States in which Authorized to Transact Business:
Delaware, Missouri
ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT ATTACHMENT

H&R Block Group, Inc.
(a subsidiary of HAR Block, In.)

lurstiction of incorporation: Delaware
Dale of incorporation: January 21, 1993
Filing No 2323361

Registered Agent in Jurisdiction of Incorporation:
Gaifin Corporate Services, ne
Joye Vetre
300 Delaware Avenue
9 Floor
Wimington, DE 18801
Principal Office Address:
Suite 101
Tk House
Bayside Executive Park
West Bay Steet and Biake Road
P.O, Box N-8220
Nassau, The Bahamas
Nature of Business: Holding Company
(Cass and Number of Shares of Stock Authorize:
10,000 shares, Common Stock, par value $1.00 per share
Number of Shares Issued by Class and Shareholders):
4100 shires issued to HAR Block, nc
Dale of Annual Meoting of Shareholders (pe Bylaws)

Third Wednesday in September o,f legal holiday, on
thernext secular day folowing, at 10:00 am.

Federal Employer Mdentfication Number: 51-0346923
ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT ATTACHMENT

Directors:

Dionisio J. D'Agullar
Andre Feldman
Rosabe Ann Kenney
Bret G. Wison

Officers:
Bret G. Wison President

yy A. Elden Vice President and Assistant Secretary
Rosalie Ann Kenney ‘Treasurer and Secretary

‘States in which Authorized lo Transact Business:

Deleware
H&R Block, Inc.

timate Parent Company

tursticon of inorporatin: Missoui

Date of ncorporaton: uly 27,1955

Chater No 0085500

Name Change Name change fom United Business,

Incorporated, of Massout on 1172156.
Registered Agentindurisdicon of Ineorporaton:

Nicholas J. Spaeth

4400 Main Stet

Kansas Cy, Missouri 64111
Principal Ofice Adress

4400 Main Stoet

Kansas Ciy, Missouri 6111

Nature of Business: Holding Company (Ultimate Parent)
ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT ATTACHMENT

Class and Number of Shares of Stock Authorized:

‘Common Stock, without par value: 800,000,000 stares
Prefered Stock, without parvaue: 6,000,000 shares

"Number of Shares Issued by Class and Shareholders)

Common Stock: Publ raded (number vaies dally)
Preferred Stock: None

CUSIP No. (093671105
Date of Annual Meeting of Shareholders (per Bylaws)

First Wednesday in September
Federal Employer dentficafon Number: 44-0607856

Directors:
‘Thomas M. Bloch
Richard C. Breeden
Jerry. Choates
Mark A. Emst
Henry F. Frgon
Robert A. Gerad
Roger W. Hale
Len J Laver
David Baker Lowis
Thomas D. Seip
Edward L. Shaw, J
Ofees:
Mark A. Emst (Charman of the Board, President and Chief Exeoutve Officer
Marc West Group President, Commercial Markets
Wiliam LTrubeck Executve Vie President and Chief Financial Offesr
Carol F. Graebner Executve Vie President and General Counsel
Fic Agar Senior Vee Present and Chie Infomaton Officer
Brad C. Nersen Senior Vice Present and Chief Marketing Offcer
Becky 8. Shulman Senior Vee Present and Treasurer
Rona Hor Senior Vee Present, Communications
Jeftey E. Nachbor Senior Vice Present Corporate Contoker
Tammy 8, Sera Senior Vee President, Hunan Resources
Bret G. Wison Vice President and Secretary

Linda M. MeDougat Vice President, Communicatlons

7
ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT ATTACHMENT

Christopher C. Wren Vice President, Corporate Development
Robert A. Weinberger Vice President, Government Relations

Nancy Frazee Assistant Vice Presint, Intemal Audit
‘Andrew J. Somora Assistant Secretary

dames . Kain Assistant Treasurer

Kennion K. Yano Assistant Treasurer

States in which Autorized fo Transact Business:

Missouri
EXHIBIT 6

LIST OF KEY PERSONNEL
LIST OF KEY PERSONNEL,

Management Consulting

Name Tie
Larry Schade! Management Consulting Team Lead
Sharon Rie Management Conuking Projet Lead
Lore Reed Management Consulting Servag Manager
David Management Consuling Serving Manager
Mark Matzjka Management Consuling Serving Manager
Carotne Gallagher Management Consulting Serving Manager
Sharon Wiliams Management Consulting Senior Consultant
John Lincoln Cost Review and Segregation Project Lead
Robert Kulikowski Cost Review and Segregation Project Manager
Rhiannon Bakk- Hansen Cost Review and Segregation Constant
‘Aoksandae Milicevie Cost Review and Segregation Consultant
Bill Bulmann Rish/Internal Control Projet Lead
Actuarial

Name Tie

John Ritchie Actuary Team Leader

Stacey Levine Actuarial Project Manager

Michael Morhun Director of Actuarial Ser

Tax Support

Name Tite

Zach Forsch “ex Support Team Lead

Randal Webb Tax Support Manager

Gail Roberson Tax Support Manager
Benefits Consulting
Name Tite:

Mark Yhoudy Benefits Team Lead

John Ritchie Benefits Project Manager

Alicia Faust Benefits Project Manager
I

View All Pages Page 1 of 13
FORM ADV ‘OMB: 3235-0049
UNIFORM APPLICATION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRATION

‘Complete this form truthfully. Fulse statements or omissions may result in denial of
your application, revocation of your registration or criminal prosecution. You must
keep this form updated by filing periodic amendments, See Form ADV General
Instruction 3.

WARNING:

Them 1 Tdentifying Information
Responses to this Item tell us who you are, where you are doing business, and how we can contact
you.
‘a, Your full legal name (if you are a sole proprietor, your lst, frst, and middle names):
DAVIS SELECTED ADVISERS LP
Name under which you primarily conduct your advisory business, i different from Item 1.A.
DAVIS SELECTED ADVISERS LP
* List on Section 1.B. of Schedule D any additional names under which you conduct your advisory
business
. If this filing is reporting a change in your legal name (Item 1A.) or primary business name (Item
1.B.), enter the new name and specify whether the name change is of

© your legal name or ™ your primary business name:

D. If you are registered withthe SEC as an investment adviser, your SEC file number: 801- 31648,

If you have a number ("CRD Number) assigned by the NASD's CRD system or by the IARD
F system, your CRD number: 108674

Uf your firm does not have a CRD number, skip this Item I.E. Do not provide the CRD number of
‘one of your officers, employees, or affiliates.
F. Principal Office and Place of Business
‘Address (do not use a P.O. Box):

Number and Street 1 Number and Street 2:
2949 EAST ELVIRA ROAD SUITE 101

City: State ‘County: ZIP+4/Postal Code:
TUCSON AZ USA 85706

(4) If this address isa private residence, check this box:
Liston Section 1.F. of Schedule D any office, other than your principal office and place of
business, at which you conduct investment advisory business. Ifyou are applying for
registration, or are registered, with one or more state securities authorities, you must lst all
of your offices inthe state or states 10 which you are applying for registration or with whom
you are registered. Ifyou are applying for registration, or are registered only with the SEC,
list the largest five offices in terms of tumbers of employees.
Days of week that you normally conduct business at your principal office and place of

(2) business:
Eivionday-Friday © other:

nnd AdvAUIPae... 11/7/2007
ee

View All Pages Page 2 of 13

Normal business hours at this location:

8:00 AM. TO 4:00 PM.

‘Telephone numier at this location:

520-434-3771

Facsimile number at this location:

© sx9.434-3770

Mailing address, if different from your principal office and place of business address:
‘Number and Street [Number and Street 2

a)

cay: State: Country: ZIP +4/Postal Code:

If this address isa private residence, check this box:
Ifyou area sole proprietor, sate your full residence address, if iferent fom your principal
4, ofc and place of business ade in Tem LF

Number and Street 1: Number and Street 2:
City State: Country: ZIP +4/Postal Code:

yes NO
Do you have World Wide Web site addresses? Ge
If "yes.” list these addresses on Section L.1. of Schedule D. Ifa web address serves as a

I. onal through which to access other information you have published on the World Wide
Web, you may list the portal without listing addresses for all ofthe other information,
Some advisers may need to list more than one portal address. Do not provide individual
‘electronic mail addresses in response to this lem.

Contact Employee:

Name: Title:
‘Telephone Number: Facsimile Number:
3, Number and Stret 1: ‘Number and Suet 2;
City: State Country: ZAP-+4/Postal Code:

Electronic mail e-mail) adress if contact employee has on:
The contact employee shouldbe an employee whom you have authorized to receive information
‘and respond 10 questions about this Form ADV.

YES No
Do you maintain some oral ofthe books and records you ae required to keep under
x, Section 204 ofthe Advisers Actor similar state law, somewhere oer than your principal ©
affce and place of busines?
If "yes" compete Section 1.K. of Schedule D.
ves xo
[Are you registered with a foreign financial regulatory authority? -o
1. Aurwer "no" you are not registred with o foreign financial regulatory aahoriy, even f

you have an affiliate that is registered witha foreign financial regulatory authority. If
“yes”, complete Section IL. of Schedule D.

FORM ADV ‘OMB: 3238-0049
UNIFORM APPLICATION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRATION.

hitp:/hwww.adviserinfo.sec.gov/IAPD/Content/ViewForn/ADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAUPag.... 11/7/2007
Le

View All Pages Page 3 of 13

rimary Business Name: DAVIS SELECTED ADVISERS LP__HARD/CRD Number: 108674
Rev.0

| Responses to this tem help us (and you) determine whether you are eligible to register with the SEC,
| Complete this Item 2 only if you are applying for SEC registration or submitting an annual updating
Jamendment to yout SEC registration

‘To register (or remain registered) with the SEC, you must check atleast one of the Items 2.A(1)
A. through 2.A(L1), below. If you ate submitting an annual updating amendment to your SEC
registration and you are no longer eligible to register with the SEC, check Item 2.A(12). You:
have assets under management of $25 million (in U.S. dollars) or more;

05a 1 tnsracion 2,1 deermie wether you soul check this box
Cr qyht¥e YoU" principal office and plac of business in Wyoming:
1 cate YoU principal ofce and place o business ouside he United Stas:

ae an investment adviser (or sub-adviser oan investment company registered under the
Investment Company Act of 1940;
Bs)

‘See Part 1A Instruction 2.. to determine whether you should check this box.
hhave been designated asa nationally recognized statistical rating organization;
© see Part 1A Instruction 2 t determine whether you should check this bo.
are a pension consultant that qualifies for the exemption in rule 203A-2(0),
© see Part 1A Instruction 2d. to determine whether you should check this box.
are relying on rule 203-2(c) because you are an investment adviser that controls, is

Ccontrolied by, or is under common contro! with, an investment adviser that is registered
‘with the SEC, and your principal office and place of business i the same as the registered
npiiviser:
1a"
See Part 1A Instruction 2. to determine whether you should check this box. If you check
this box, complete Section 2.A(7) of Schedule D.

are a newly formed adviser relying on rule 203A-2(4) because you expect tobe eligible for
‘SEC registration within 120 days;

see Part 1A tnstruction 2f. 1 determine whether you should check this bax. Ifyou check
this box. complete Section 2.A(8) of Schedule D.

jo) Simulate adviser relying on rule 2034-2()

cookin AdwAMPRe.. 11/9/2007
|

View All Pages Page 4 of 13

this box, complete Section 2.4(9) of Schedule D.
are an Internet investment adviser relying on rule 203-20
[W056 part 1A Instructions 2.h 1 determine whether you should check this box,

hhave received an SEC order exempting you from the prohibition against registration with
the SEC;

ray
‘Wyou checked this box, complete Section 2.4(11) of Schedule D,

are no longer eligible to remain registered with the SEC.

"(2)sce Part 1A Instructions 2. to determine whether you should check this Box

Under state laws, SEC-tegisored advisers may be required to provide to state securities
‘authorities a copy ofthe Form ADV and any amendments they file with the SEC. These are
talled novice ins. I this isan intial application, check the box(es) next to the state(s) that you
‘would ike to receive notice of this and all subsequent filings you submit to the SEC. If this isan
amendment to direct your notice flings to additional state(s), check the box(es) next to the state
(6) tht you would like wo receive notice of this and all subsequent filings you submit othe SEC.
If this i an amendment to your registration to stop your noice flings from gong to state(s that
curreatly receive them, uncheck the box(es) next to those state(s).

[on

Bw
On ED ex
Ow Ba
Bu Esc
xs EN sp
xy Eli
Bis Erx
B ve Bur
1 wo Bw
Oma rv
Om Elva
Bw Ewa
Bi us Bw
Bw

{f you are amending your registration to stop your notice filings from going toa state that
currently receives them and you do not want to pay that state's notice filing fee for the coming

roe ndvicovinfr coe eov/IAPD/ContenvViewFormvADV/Sections/iapd_ AdvAIIPag.... 11/7/2007
View All Pages Page 5 of 13

FORM ADV OMB: 3235-0049
UNIFORM APPLICATION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRATION

How are you organized?
© Corporation © Sole Proprietorship © Limited Liability Partnership (LLP)

other ect
© Pacwership Limite ibility Company (LL) OBEY.

‘Ifyou are changing your response to this Item, see Part 1A Instruction 4

{In what month does your fiscal year end each year?
December
Under the laws of what state or country are you organized”?
COLORADO
you are a partnership, provide the name of the state or country under whose laws your

C. partnership was formed. Ifyou are a sole proprietor, provide the name ofthe state or country
where you reside,

‘Ifyou are changing your response to this Item, see Part 1A Instruction 4.

iNwwew.adviserinfo.sec-gov/IAPD/Conten/ViewForm/ADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAllPag.... 11/7/2007

View All Pages Page 6 of 13,

FORM ADV ‘OMB: 3235.0049
ICATION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRATION

a. Are you a the tine ofthis ing suceeding tothe busines of aregisteredinvesment ey BY

If "yes," complete Item 4.B. and Section 4 of Schedule D.
pp Date of Succession: (MSUDDYYYY)

If you have already reported this succession on a previous Form ADV filing, do not
report the succession again. Instead, check "No." See Part 1A Instruction 4.

hutp:/www.adviserinfo.sec.gov/IAPD/Content/ViewFomvADV/Sectionsiapd_AdvAllPag.... 11/7/2007

View All Pages Page 7 of 13

FORM ADV OMB: 3235-0049
UNIFORM APPLICATION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRATION
imary Business Name: DAVIS SELECTED ADVISERS EP HARD/CRD Number: 108674

Tem 5 Information About Your Advisory Business

[Responses to this Item help us understand your business, assist us in preparing for on-site

examinations, and provide us with data we use when making regulatory policy. Pat 1A Instruction

5.a. provides additional guidance to newly-formed advisers for completing this Item 5.

Employees

‘a. Approximately how many employees do you have? Include full and part-time employees but do
not include any clerical workers.

Os S610 oso © 51.250 Bhss1.500
© a
c More than If more than 1,000, how many’
501-1,000 4,000 ‘(round tothe nearest 1,000)

(1 Approximately how maay ofthese employees perform investment advisory functions
(Gocluding research)?

0 e1s 6.10 Bhiso © 31-250
e 2
on e More than If more than 1,000, how many’
251-800 501-1,000 4.000 (round tothe nearest 1,000)
(2 APproximately how many ofthese employees ae repstered representatives of «broke
dealer?
0 O1s S610 11-50 Bs:.250
If more than 1,000, how many?
° 000, y?
© 251-500 so1-1.000 More than

1,000 (round to the nearest 1,000)

you are organized as a sole proprietorship, include yourself as an employee in your
responses 10 liens 5.A(1) and 5.B(2) If an employee performs more than one function You
should count that employee in each of Your responses to lem 5.B( 1) and 5.B(2).

G) Approximately how many firms or other persons solicit advisory clients on your behalf?

0 6.10 Bis © 51.280
° P
¢ More than Uf more than 1,000, how many
251-500 1,000 (round to the nearest 1,000)

{In your response o Item 5.B(3), do not count any of your employees and count a firm only
‘nice -= do not count each of the firm's employees that solicit on your behalf.

butp://www adviserinfo.sec,gov/IAPD/Content/ViewForn/ADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAlIPag.... 11/7/2007
be

View All Pages Page 8 of 13,
Clients
¢, To-approximately how many clients did you provide investment advisory services during your
smostecently completed fiscal year?
~ 0 e110 Las © 26-100 © 101-250
asi KXdioedin so (an wiienewen 50)
33000
What pes of lens do you have? Inia the UP a. ae si. More
OF your ttl punber Ofcom Nome tome 25% 80% 75% Temp
(A) Individuals (other than high net worth individuals) © © © cg
@) High net worth individuals : ©
@)_ Banking or thrift institutions °
(4) Investment companies (including mutual funds) °
. (5) Pension and profit sharing plans (ther than pln °
participants)
(6 Oiber pooled investment vehicles (eg. hedge
funds)
(7) Charitable organizations
(8) Corporations or other businesses not sted above
(9) State of municipal government entities
(10) Other: coe 6
The category “individuals” includes trusts, estates, 401(k) plans and IRAs of individuals and their

aanaan
2200

2929090

9999
aa00

family memibers, but does not include businesses organized as sole proprietorships.

Unless you provide advisory services pursuant to an investment advisory contract oan
investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, check "None" in
response to tem S.D(4).

Compensation Arrangements
You are compenssted for your investment advisory services by (check all that apply)
1) A percentage of assets under your management
7 @) Hourly charges
© 6) Subscription fees (for a newsletter or periodical)
© (4) Fixed fes (other than subscription fes)
F )Commissions
© © Performance-based fees
Oo other (specify):
| Assets Under Management

‘2+ awit 4 PIC ontentViewRomVADV/Sections/iapd_AdVALIPag.... 11/7/2007
‘View All Pages Page 9 of 13

YES No
Jou provide continvous and regular sapervsory or management services to
are poole nnn SWPrTsory or mamas ©
It yes, what the amount of your assets under management and total number of accounts?

US. Dollar Amount Total Number of Accounts
(@) Discretionary: (2) $.98000000000.00 (47500
Non-Discretionary: (b)$.0.00 wo
Total: (©) $.98000000000.00 (0 47500

Part 1A Instruction 5.b. explains how to calculate your assets under management. You must
follow these instructions carefully when completing this tem.

Advisory Activities
‘What type(s) of advisory services do you provide? Check all that apply

1 (1 Financial planning services
Ee Pontotio management for individuals anor smal busi
E10 Pordoii management for investneet cotpnioe

FEI Postolio management for businesses or institutional clients (the than investment
[companies)

F (5) Pension consulting services
T= (6) Selection of other advisers

F (7) Publication of periodicals or newslesters
1B @) Security ratings or pricing services

TF (0) Market timing services

{5 (10) Other (specify:

Do not check Item 5.G(3) unless you provide advisory services pursuant to an investment

advisory contract fo an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of
1940,

If you provide financial planning services, to how many clients did you provide these services
during your last fiscal year?
| Eb M110 © nas © 26.50 © s1-100
If more than 500, how many?
(round to the nearest 500)
If you participate ina wrap fee program, do you (check all that apply)

© 101-250 © 281-500 © More than $00

«1 sponsor the wrap fee program?
2) act sa porto manager forthe wrap fee program?

{Ifyou are a portfolio manager for a wrap fee program, lst the names ofthe programs and their

hutps//www adviserinfo.sec gov/IAPD/Content/ViewForm/ADV/Sectionv/iapd_AdvAllPag.... 11/7/2007
View All Pages Page 10 of 13

sponsors in Section $.1(2) of Schedule D.

I your involvement in a wrap fee program is limited to recommending wrap fee programs to
Your clients, or you advise a mutual fund that is offered through a wrap fee program, do not
‘check either Item 5.1(1) or 5.12)

FORM ADV ‘OMB: 3235-0049
UNIFORM APPLICATION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRATION
imary Business Name: DAVIS SELECTED ADVISERS EP ARD/CRD Number: 108674

[fem 6 Other Busines Activites

In this Tem, we requert information about your other busines activites.
You ae actively engaged in busines a a (check al that apply):
T (1) Broker-dealer
© (2) Registered representative of a broker-dealer
7 @) Futures commission merchant, commodity pool operator, or commodity trading advisor
* F (4) Real estate broker, dealer, or agent
© (5) Insurance broker or agent
© (6) Bank (including a separately identifiable department or division of a bank)
© (7) Other financial product salesperson (specify):
YES NO

Are you atively engaged in ay other busines nt listed in Hem 6.A. (other thang.
©D giving investment advice)? a

(2) yes, is this other business your primary business? cg
B. If'yes." describe tis other business on Section 6.B. of Schedule D.
YES NO

Do fou sell products or provide services other than investment advice o your @
© advisory client? a

‘hup:/www.adviserinf sec. gov/IAPD/ContenUViewForn/ADV/Sections/igpd_AdvAIIPag... 11/7/2007
View All Pages Page 11 of 13

FORM ADV ‘OMB: 3235-0049
UNIFORM APPLICATION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRATION
ary Business Name: DAVIS SELECTED ADVISERS LP TARD/CRD Number: 108674

[fem 7 Financia ncn AfTionone

In this tem, we request information about your financial industry affiliations and acti
information identifies areas in which conflicts of interest may occur between you and your clients.

ltem 7 requires you to provide information about you and your related persons. Your related persons
are all of your advisory affiliates and any person that is under common control with you.

A. You have a related person that isa (check all that apply):

1) broker-dealer, municipal securities dealer, or government securities broker or dealer
(2) investment company (including mutual funds)
3) other investment adviser (including financial planners)

(4) futures commission merchant, commodity pool operator, or commodity trading advisor

(5) banking or thrift institution

© accountant or accounting firm

E07) lawyer or law firm,

(8) insurance company or agency

©) pension consultant

FO) real estate broker or dealer

C1) sponsor or synicator of limited partnerships

I. you checked lem 7.A(3), you must lst on Section 7A. of Schedule D cll your related persons
that are investment advisers. Ifyou checked Item 7A(1), you may elect to list on Section 7A. of
Schedule D all your related persons that are broker-dealers Ifyou choose to lista related
broker dealer, the IARD will accept a single Farm U-4 10 register an investment adviser
representative who also is a broker-dealer agent ("registred rep" ofthat related broker dealer,

YES NO
‘Are you or any related person a general partner in an investment-related limited
partnership or manager of an investment-relted limited Viability company, or do you RY
advise any other "private fund” as defined under SEC rule 203()(3)-1?

If "yes." for each limited partnership or limited liability company. or (if applicable)
private fund, complete Section 7.B. of Schedule D. If, however, you are an SEC-

htp:/www adviserinfo. sec. gov/IAPDIContenvViewFomvADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAIPag.... 11/7/2007
View All Pages Page 12 of 13

registered adviser and you have related persons that are SEC-registered advisers who
Aare the general partners of limited partnerships or the managers of limited lability
‘companies, you do not have to complete Section 7.B. of Schedule D with respect 10
those related advisers’ limited partnerships or limited liability companies.

To.use this alternative procedure, you must state in the Miscellaneous Section of.
Schedule D: (1) that you have related SEC-registered investment advisers that manage
limited parmerships or limited liability companies that are not listed in Section 7.B. of
‘your Schedule D: (2) that complete and accurate information about those limited
armerships or limited liability companies is available in Section 7.B. of Schedule D of
the Form ADVs of your related SEC-registered advisers: and (3) whether your clients
are solicited to invest in any of those limited partnerships or limited liability

companies. ]

FORM ADV ‘OMB: 3235-0049
UNIFORM APPLICATION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRATION

[Tem § Participation or Interest in Client Transactions

In this tem, we request information about your participation and interest in your client’ transactions.
Like Item 7, this information identifies areas in which conflicts of interest may occur between you
and your clients

Like Item 7, Item 8 requires you to provide information about you and your related persons.
Proprictary Interest in Client Transactions
‘A. Do you or any related person: YesNo

buy securities for yourself from advisory clients, or sll securities you own to advisory
( Giems pelncpal transactions)? a

buy or sell for yourself securities (ther than shares of mutual funds) that you also
(2) commend to advisory clients? a-

recommend securities (or other investment products) to advisory clients in which you
(3) or any related person has some other proprietary (ownership) interest (other than © EY

those mentioned in Items 8.A(1) or (2))?

hutp://www adviserinfo.sec.gow/LAPD/Content/ViewFornvADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAllPag.... 11/1/2007
‘View All Pages Page 13 of 13,

hhups//www.adviserinfo.sec.gov/IAPD/Conten/ViewFomvADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAlPag.... 11/7/2007
View

All Pages Page 1 of $9

FORM ADV ‘OMB: 3235.0049
UNIFORM APPLICATION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRATION

WARNING

iy Business Name: HARRIS ASSOCIATES LP ARD/CRD Number: 106960

‘Complete this form truthfully. False statements or omissions may result in denial of
‘our application, revocation of your registration, or criminal prosecution. You must

* cep this form updated by filing periodic amendments. See Form ADV General
Instruction 3.

Res
you.

A

c

D.

F

Item 1 Identifying Information

ponses to this tem tell us who you are, where you are doing business, and how we can contact

‘Your full legal name (if you are a sole proprietor, your last, first, and middle names):

HARRIS ASSOCIATES LP

‘Name under which you primarily conduct your advisor business, if differen from lem 1A
HARRIS ASSOCIATES LP

List om Section 1. of Schedule Dany additional names unde which you conduct your advisory
business.

Lf ths filing is reporting a change in your legal name (Item 1.A.) or primary business name (lem
1.B}), enter the new name and specif} whether the name change is of

your legal name ot F your primary business name:

I you are registered with the SEC as an investment adviser, your SEC file number: 801- 50333
I you have a number ("CRD Number") assigned by the NASD's CRD system or by the JARD
system, your CRD number: 106960

‘I your firm does not have a CRD number, skip this tem I.E. Do not provide the CRD number of
‘one of your officers, employees, or affiliates.

Principal Office and Place of Business
“Address (do not use a P.O. Box):

Number and Street 1: Number and Stret 2:

‘TWO NORTH LASALLE STREET, STE 500

City: State: Country: _ZIP+4/Postal Code:
CHICAGO in UsA {60602-3790

(jy Its address is a private residence, check this box:
Liston Section LF. of Schedule D any office, other than your principal office and place of
‘business, at which you conduct investment advisory business. Ifyou are applying for
registration, or are registered. with one or more state securities authorities, you must list all
of your ofices in the state or sates to which you are applying fr registration or with wham
you are registered. Ifyou are applying for registration, or are registered only, with the SEC,
list the largest five offices in terms of numbers of employees.

Days of week that you normally conduct business at your principal office and place of

(2) business:

fonday-Friday © Other:

http://www adviserinfo. sec, gov/TAPD/Conten/ViewForm/ADV/Sections/ispd_AdvAllPag... 11/7/2007
eee

View All Pages Page 2 of 59

‘Normal business hours a this location:
5:30 AM. 5:00 PM.

Telephone number at this location:

312-621-0600

Facsimile number at this location:

® 312-621-0636

Mailing address, if different from your principal office and place of business address
‘Number and Street 1 Number and Stret 2:

@

City: State: Country: Z1P+4/Postal Code:

If this address is a private residence, check this box:

Ifyou are a sole proprietor, state your full residence address, if diferent from your principal
1H, alee and place of business address in Item 1.F.

Number and Stet ‘Number and Stret 2:
Ci State: County. ZIP/Postal Code

yes No
Do you have World Wide Web site addreses? Bo

If "Yes," list these addresses on Section LI. of Schedule D. Ifa web address serves as a
|, portal through which to access other information you have published on the World Wide
Web, you may lis the portal without listing addresses for al ofthe other information.
Some advisers may need to list more than one portal address. Do not provide individual

electronic mail addresses in response to this lem.

Contact Employee:
Name: Title:
‘Telephone Number: Facsimile Number:

4, Number and Street 1 Number and Street 2:
City: State: Country ZIP +4/Postal Code:

Electronic mail (e-mail) address, if contact employee has one:
The contact employee should be an employee whom you have authorized to receive information
‘and respond to questions about this Form ADV.

YES No

Do you maintain some or all of the books and records you are required to keep under
i. Section 204 of the Advisers Act, or similar state law, somewhere other than your principal ©

affce and place of business?
If "yen" compete Section LK. of Schedule D.

ves No
‘Are you registred with a foreign financial regulatory authority? ac

L, Answer “no” f you are not registered with a foreign financial regulatory authority, even if
you have an affiliate that is registered with a foreign financial regulatory authority. If
yes", complete Section I.L. of Schedule D.

FORM ADV ‘OMB: 3235-0049
UNIFORM APPLICATION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRATION

‘ntp://www adviserinfo,sec.gov/1APD/Content/ViewForn/ADViSections/iapd_AdvAllPag.... 11/7/2007
View All Pages Page 3 of $9

[tem 2 SEC Registration
Responses to this Item help us (and you) determine whether you are eligible to register with the SEC.
[Complete this Item 2 only if you are applying for SEC registration or submitting an annual updating
Jamendment to yout SEC registration.
‘To register (or remain registered) withthe SEC, you must check atleast one of the Items 2.A(1)
A. through 2.A(11), below. If you are submitting an annual updating amendment to yout SEC
registration and you are no longer eligible to register with the SEC, check Item 2.A(12). You:
have assets under management of $25 million (in U.S. dollars) or more;

0 5c part 1A Instron 2. 10 determine whether you shold check this box.

1 yhtve Your principal office and place of business in Wyoming;

1 gybive your principal fice and place of business outside the United States;
fare an investment adviser (or sub-adviser to an investment company registered under the
Investment Company Act of 1940;

ra@
‘See Part 1A Instruction 2.b. 1 determine whether you should check this box.

‘have been designated as a nationally recognized stat

tical rating organization;

see part 1A Instruction 2.0, to determine whether you should check this box.
are a pension consultant that qualifies for the exemption in rule 203A-2(0),

© see Part 1A Instruction 2.d. to determine whether you should check this box.

ate relying on rule 203A-2(c) because you are an investment adviser that controls, is
controlled by, or is under common control with, an investment adviser that is registered
with the SEC, and your principal office and place of business isthe same as the registered
naps:
oO
See Part 1A Instruction 2.e. to determine whether you should check this box. Ifyou check
this box, complete Section 2.A(7) of Schedule D.

are a newly formed adviser relying on rule 203A-2(d) because you expect to be eligible for
‘SEC registration within 120 days;

c
see Part 1A Instruction 2. 0 determine whether you should check this box. Ifyou check
this box, complete Section 2.A(8) of Schedule D.

area muli-state adviser relying on rule 203A-2(e);
re wns

See Part 1A Instruction 2.g. to determine whether you should check this box. Ifyou check

bitp:/www adviserinfo.sec,gov/IAPD/Content/ViewFornv/ADV/Sections/iapd_AdVAlIPag.... 11/7/2007
FCO see Part 1A Instructions 2h. to determine whether you should check this box

have received an SEC order exempting you from the prohibition against registration with
the SEC;

Fay
‘Ifyou checked this box, complete Section 2.4(11) of Schedule D.

‘are no longer eligible to remain registered with the SEC.

F(2)sc¢ Part 1A Instructions 2, to determine whether you should check this box.

‘Under state laws, SEC-registered advisers may be required to provide to state securities
‘authorities a copy of the Form ADV and any amendments they file withthe SEC. These are
called novice flings. If this isan initial application, check the box(es) next to the states) that you
‘would like to receive notice of this and all subsequent filings you submit to the SEC. If this is an
amendment to direct your notice filings to additional state(s), check the box(es) next tothe state
(s) that you would like to receive notice of this and all subsequent filings you submit to the SEC.
I this is an amendment to your registration to stop your notice filings trom going to state(s) that
currently receive them, uncheck the box(es) next to those state(s

‘you are amending your registration to stop your notice filings from going toa state that
crrenily receives them and you do not want fo pay that state's notice filing fe for the coming

View All Pages Page 4 of 59
this box, complete Section 2.A(9) of Schedule D.
are an Internet investment adviser relying on rule 203A-2({);

Lhupi//www adviserinfo.sec-gov/IAPD/Conten/ViewFomvADV/Sectionviapd_AdvANPag... 11/7/2007
a

View All Pages Page 5 of 59

ear, your amendment must fled before the end ofthe year (December 31).

FORM ADV ‘OMB: 3235-0049
UNIFORM APPLICATION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRATION
ASSOCIATES LP PARD/CRD Number: 106960

How are you organized?
© Corporation © Sole Proprietorship © Limited Liability Partnership (LLP)

A. Partnership © Limited Liability Company (LLC) © Othe! (specify):
‘If you are changing your response to this Item, see Part 1A Instruction 4.
In what month does your fiscal year end each year?

December

‘Under the laws of what state 6r country are you organized?
DELAWARE
Iyou are a partnership, provide the name ofthe state or country under whose laws your

. partnership was formed. Ifyou are a sole proprietor, provide the name ofthe state or country
where you reside,

‘Ifyou are changing your response to this Item, see Part 1A Instruction 4

hhup://w ww.adviserinfo sec gov/IAPD/Content/ViewFom/ADV/Sectionv/iapd_AdvAllPag.... 11/7/2007
View All Pages Page 6 of 59

FORM ADV ‘OMB: 3235-0049
UNIFORM APPLICATION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRATION
jrimary Business Name: HARRIS ASSOCIATES LP

Item 4 Successions

_a, Afe you, atthe time ofthis filing, succeeding tothe business ofa registered investment ¢
adviser?

If "yes." complete Item 4.B. and Section 4 of Schedule D.
1p, Date of Succession: (MM/DOMYYY)

Ifyou have already reported this succession on a previous Form ADV filing, do not
report the succession again. Instead, check “No.” See Part 1A Instruction 4

—— ee |

tutp:/vww ad viserinfo.sec.gov/LAPD/Content/ViewFornvADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAllPag... 11/7/2007
Yiew All Pages Page 7 of 59

FORM ADV ‘OMB: 3235-0049
UNIFORM APPLICATION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRATION

[tem 5 Information About Your Advisory Business

Responses to this lem help us understand your business, assist us in preparing for on-site
[examinations, and provide us with data we use when making regulatory policy. Part LA Instruction
5.a. provides additional guidance to newly-formed advisers for completing this lem 5

Emploxees

‘a, Approximately how many employees do you have? Face full and parttime employees but do
no ince any clerical workers

oLs S610 11-50 Bis:.250 © 251-500
° 1 more than 1,000, how many?
c More than . iy
s01-1.000 1,000 (round tothe nearest 1,000)

1 Approximately how many ofthese employees perform investment advisory functions
© Gactuding research)?

oo eis Se10 11-50 Bs1.250
° 2
° c ‘More than If more than 1,000, how many’
251-500 501. 1,000 (round tothe nearest 1,000)
2) Approximately how many of these employees are registered representatives of a broker-
eater?
%0 es 610 11-50 Esi.250
© an Hore than 1,000, how many?
© 251-500 © 501-1000 gyre

(round to the nearest 1,000)

Ifyou are organized as a sole proprietorship, include yourself as an employee in your
responses 10 Items 5.A(1) and 5.B(2). Ifan employee performs more than one function, you
should count that employee in each of your responses to Item 5.B(1) and 5.B(2)

@) Approximately how many firms or other persons solicit advisory clients on your behalf?

©o es 610 Biso © 51.250
° a
° ° More than If more than 1,000, how many
25150 $011.00 1.000 (round tothe nearest 1,000)

{In your response to Item 5.B(3), do not count any of your employees and count a firm only
‘once ~ do not count each of the firm's employees that solicit on your behalf.

hhup://www.adviserinfo. sec, gov/IAPD/ContenuViewFomVADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAllPag.... 11/7/2007
View All Pages Page 8 of 59

tints
¢, To spproximately how many clients did you provide investment advisory services during your
tnostoocly completed fiscal year”
eo C110 © i125 © 26-100 © 101-250
Mf more than $00, how many?
© 51-500” KEMore than $00 (rund to the nearest 500)
SS00
What types of cients do you have? Indicate the UP a. ae she More
approximate percentage that cach type of client comprises. to a ~ Than
of your total number of clients. None 10% 25% 50% 75% a50,
(0) Individuals (other than high net worth individuals) © FO © 6 0
2) High net worth individuals oc oe og
(2) Banking or thrift insttations Hocc oo
(4) Investment companies (including mutual funds) ° o ec aoe
D. ¢g) Pension and profit sharing plans (ther than plang oc oe
©) participants) a
Other pooled investment vehicles (eg. hedge cc eo
© ‘madsy a
(1) Charitable organizations eMr cece
(8) Corporations or other businesses notlistedabove ¢ FJ © c 6 6
(9) ‘State or municipal government entities eBoc oe
(0) Other oo 6 6 6
The category “individuals” includes trusts, estates, 401(k plans and IRAs of individuals and heir
fem members, ut doesnot ncade businesses orponted assole propretorshioa

Unless you provide advisory services pursuant to an investment advisory contract to an
investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, check "None" in
response to Item 5.DX4).
‘Compensation Amangements
You are compensated for your investment advisory services by (check all that apply):
1) A percentage of assets under your management

2) Hourly charges

(3) Subscription fees (for a newsletter or periodical)
(4) Fixed fees (ther than subscription fees)

© (5) Commissions
(6) Performance-based fees

© (1) Other (specify):

Assets Under Management

hutp//www adviserinfo.sec.gov/TAPD/Conten/ViewForn/ADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAllPag.... 11/7/2007
View All Pages Page 9 of 59

YES NO
Do you provide continuous and regular supervisory or management services 10 Yc

securities portfolios?
If yes, what isthe amount of your assets under management and total number of accounts?

cz0)

US. Dollar Amount ‘Total Number of Accounts
(2) Discretionary: (a) $7295343766.00 wom
‘Non-Diseretionary (b)$ 2735775.00 ©
Total (©) $ 72986179541.00 ( 2229

Part 1A Instruction 5b. explains how to calculate your assets under management. You must
follow these instructions carefully when completing this tem.

Advisory Activities
What type(s) of advisory services do you provide? Check al that apply

(1) Financial planing services

Ee Porotio management for individuals and/or small businesses

(3) Portfolio management for investment companies

i Porolo management for businesses or institaionl lens (oer han avesimen
companies)

17 (5) Pension consulting services

F160 Selection of other advisers

© 'F (7) Publication of periodicals or newsletters
 (@) Security ratings or pricing services
F (9) Market timing services
{p, (40) Other (specify
Do not check Item 5.G(3) unless you provide advisory services pursuant to an investment
‘advisory contract to an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of
1940,
If you provide financial planning services, to how many clients did you provide these services
during your last fiscal year?

HCO 110 ©1125 © 26.50 © 51-100
c ° ° If more than $00, how many?

101-250 251-500 More than $00 (ound tothe nearest 00)

Ifyou participate ina wrap fee program, do you (check all that apply):

(1) sponsor the wrap fee program?
2) act as a portfolio manager forthe wrap fee program?

{Ifyou are a portfolio manager for a wrap fee program, lst the names of the programs and their

hutp://www adviserinfo.sec.gov/IAPD/Content/ViewForm/ADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAlIPag.... 11/7/2007
View All Pages Page 10 of $9

sponsors in Section $.1(2) of Schedule D.

If your involvement in a wrap fee program is limited to recommending wrap fee programs to
‘your clients, or you advise a mutual fund that is offered through a wrap fee program, do not

[_ check eter item 5111) oF 5.12,

FORM ADV ‘OMB: 3235-0049
UNIFORM APPLICATION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRATION
[Primary Business Name: HARRIS ASSOCIATES LP. ARD/CRD Number: 106960

[fim 6 Other Business Activities ]
Tn this tem, we request information about your other business activities.

‘You are actively engaged in business as a (check all hat apply)

7 (1 Broker-deater

© @) Registered representative ofa broker dealer

7) Futures commission merchant, commodity pol operator, or commodity trading advisor
* (4) Realestate broker, dealer, or agent

7 (5) insurance broker or agent

© (6 Bank (including a separately identifiable department or division ofa bank)

© (7) Other financial product salesperson (specify)

YESNO

‘Are you actively engaged in any other business not listed in tem 6.A. (other than
(Giving investment ace? a

(@) If yes is this other business your primary business? °
B. If yes," describe this other business on Section 6.B. of Schedule D.

| YES No
| 4, poyouset produto provide serie te thn investment avis 0 your

| Remon og
Lassen

‘ntp://ww.adviserinf sec. gov/IAPD/Content/ViewForm/ADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAllPag... 11/7/2007
View All Pages Page 11 of 59

FORM ADV ‘OMB: 3235-0049
UNIFORM APPLICATION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRATION

tem 7 Financial Industry Affiliations

In this Item, we request information about your financial industry affiliations and activities. Tis
information identifies areas in which conflicts of interest may occur between you and your clients.

Item 7 requires you to provide information about you and your related persons. Your related persons
areal of your advisory affiliates and any person that is under common control with you.
‘A. You have a related person that i a (check ll that apply)
FH) broker-dealer, municipal securities dealer, o government securities broker or dealer
2) investment company (including mutual funds)
FY) other investment adviser (including financial planners)
FE} 4) futures commission merchant, commodity pool operator, or commod
F245) banking or tri institution
{© (6) accountant or accounting firm
107) lawyer or aw firm
8) insurance company or agency
(9) pension consultant
10) real estate broker or dealer
11) sponsor or syndicator of limited partnerships

trading advisor

Ifyou checked Item 7.A(3), you must list on Section 7.A. of Schedule D cll your related persons
‘that are investment advisers. If you checked liem 7.A(1), you may elect to list on Section 7.8. of
Schedule D all your related persons that are broker-dealers. Ifyou choose to list a related
broker-dealer, the IARD will accept a single Form U-4 to register an investment adviser
representative who also isa broker-dealer agent "registered rep”) of that related broker-dealer.

YESNO
Are you or any related person a general partner in an investment-related limited
partnership of manager of an invesomentrelated limited lability company, or do you BY
advise any other "private fund" as defined under SEC rule 203(6\3)-1?

If "yes," for each limited partnership or limited liability company, or (if applicable)
private jund, complete Section 7.B. of Schedule D. If, however, you are an SEC-

bitp://www.adviserinfo.sec.gov/IAPD/Content/ViewFomnvVADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAlIPag.... 11/7/2007
TEER

View All Pages Page 12 of 59

registered adviser and you have related persons that are SEC-registered advisers who
tre the general parmers of limited partnerships or the managers of limited lability
‘companies, you do not have 1o complete Section 7-B. of Schedule D with respect 10
those related advisers’ limited partnerships or limited liability companies.

To use this alternative procedure, you must state inthe Miscellaneous Section of
Schedule D (1) that you have related SEC-registered investment advisers tha manage
limited parmershps or limited liability compenies that ae nt listed in Section 7.3. of
‘your Schedule D: (2) that complete and accurate information about those liited
partnerships or limited labity companies is available in Section 7B. of Schedule D of
the Form ADV of your relazed SEC registered advisers; and (3} whether your clients
are solicited to invest in any of those limited partnerships or limited liability
companies

FORM ADV ‘OMB: 3235-0049
UNIFORM APPLICATION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRATION
TARD/CRD Number: 106960

[lem & Participation or Interest in Client Transactions

In this Item, we request information about your participation and intrest in your clients’ transactions.

Like Item 7, this information identifies areas in Which conflicts of interest may occur between you
and your clients.

Like ttem 7 lem 8 requires you to provide information about you and your related persons

PropcictaryInsrest in Client Transactions

‘A. Do you or any related person YesNo
(ay Bay Securities for yourself from advisory clients, o sll securities you own to advisory ¢
clients (principal transactions)?

(2) Wy or sll for youre securities (other than shares of mutual fund) that you sso
» recommend to advisory clients?
recommend seeutiies (or other investment products to advisory client in which you

(3) or any related person has some other proprietary (ownership) interest (other than EJ ©
tee tel ie AA

B, Do you or any related person:
as a broker-dealer or registered representative of a broker-dealer, execute securities
(1) trades for brokerage customers in which advisory client securities are sold to or og
bought from the brokerage customer (agency cross transactions)?
recommend purchase of securities to advisory clients for which you or any related

(2) person serves as underwriter, general or managing partner, or purchaser Oe
representative?

Yes No

(6) recommend purchase or sale of securities to advisory clients for which you or any
‘elated persom bas eny oer sles intrest (ther than the receipt of sles commissions

Iito:/www.adviserinfo sec gov/IAPD/Content/ViewForm/ADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAllPag.... 11/7/2007
View All Pages Page 13 of 59

35 broker or registered representative ofa broker-dealer)?
Investment or Brokerage Discretion

.Do you or any related person have discretionary authority to determine the: Yes No
(A) securities to be bought or sold fora clients account? Gc
(2) amount of securities to be bought or sold fora client's account? Oc

(a) broker or dealer tobe used fora purchase or sl of securities foraclin'saccoun? EJ ©
(4) commision testo be pai to a broker or dealer for cients scuies tansctions? KE ©

. Do you or any related person recommend brokers or dealers to clients? ©
Do you or any related person receive research ooter products or services oer than

execution frm a broker-dealer or atin pry in connection with lent secures YO
transactions?

Do you or any related person, directly or indiretly, compensate any person for client
referrals?
F. In responding to this Item 8.F., consider in your response all cash and non-cash Oo
‘compensation that you or d related person gave any person in exchange for client
referrals including any bonus that is based. a east in par. nthe number or amount of
(lent referrals

FORM ADV ‘OMB: 3235-0049
UNIFORM APPLICATION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRATION.

[em 9 Custody

In this tem, we ask you whether you or a related person has custody of client assets. If you are
registering or registered with the SEC and you deduct your advisory fees directly from your clients"
accounts but you do not otherwise have custody of your clients’ funds or securities, you may answer
“no” to item 9A.(1) and 9A.(2).

A. Do you have custody of any advisory clients’ Yearse
(1) cash or bank accounts? go
(2) securities? oc

B. Do any of your related persons have custody of any of your advisory liens
(1) cash or bank accounts?

6
(2) securities? ca
og

Ifyou answered "yes" to either Item 9.8(1) or 9.B(2), i that related person a broker-
dealer registered under Section 15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 19347

http://www adviserinfo.sec.gov/TAPD/Content/ViewForn/ADV/Sections/iapd_AdVAlIPag.... 11/7/2007
View All Pages

Page 14 of 59

FORM ADV OMB: 3235-0049
UNIFORM APPLICATION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRATION

[item 10 Control Persons

In this Item, we ask you to identify every person that, directly or indirectly, controls you.
If you are submitting an initial application, you must complete Schedule A and Schedule B.
‘Schedule A asks for information about your direct owners and executive officers. Schedule B
asks for information about your indirect owners. If this is an amendment and you ate updati
information you reported on either Schedule A or Schedule B (or both) that you filed with your
initial application, you must complete Schedule C.

YES NO
Does any person nt named in Kem ILA. or Schedules A,B,orC, dieclyor
indirectly. conrol your management or policies?

Ifyes, complete Section 10 of Schedule D.

‘hupr//www.adviserinfo sec, gov/IAPD/Contenv/V iewFornvVADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAlIPag.

Lur007
View All Pages Page 15 of 59

FORM ADV ‘OMB: 3235-0049
UNIFORM APPLICATION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRATION

[Rem 11 Disclosure Information

In this Item, we ask for information about your disciplinary history and the disciplinary history of
all your advisory affiliates. We use ths information to determine whether to grant your application
for registration, to decide whether to revoke your registration orto place limitations on your
activities as an investment adviser, and to identify potential problem areas to focus on during our
‘on-site examinations. One event may result in "yes" answers to more than one of the questions
below.

‘Your advisory affiliates ate: (1) all of your current employees (other than employees performing
only clerical, administrative, support or similar functions); (2) all of your officers, partners, or
directors (or any person performing similar functions); and (3) all persons directly or indirectly
controlling you or controlled by you. If you are a "separately identifiable department or

division” (SID) of a bank, see the Glossary of Terms to determine who your advisory affiliates are.

Ifyou are registered or registering with the SEC, you may limit your disclosure of any event listed
in lem 11 t01en years following the date ofthe event. If you are registered or registering with a
state, you must respond to the questions as posed: you may. therefore, limit your disclosure to ten
‘ears following the date of an event onty in responding to Items 11.A( 1), 1-A(2), LL-B(1), 1.B(2),
1LD(4), and 11.H(1a). For purposes of calculating this ten-year period, the date of an event is

hutp:/www adviseringo.sec.gow/IAPD/Content/ViewFomvADV/Sections/iapd_AdVAIIPag.... 11/7/2007
View All Pages Page 16 of 59

the date the final order, judgment, or decree was entered, or the date any rights of appeal from
preliminary orders, judgments, or decrees lapsed.

‘You must complete the appropriate Disclosure Reporting Page ("DRP*) for "yes" answers tothe
questions in this Item 11

For."yes” answers 1 the following questions, complete a Criminal Action DRP;
‘A Inthe past ten years, have you or any advisory afiliate: YES NO

(1) been convicted of or plead guilty or noo contendere ("x0 contest") ina domestic, ¢ EJ
forcien, or military cour to any felony?
been charged with any felony? am ° |

Ifyou are registered or registering with the SEC, you may limit your response to Item
11.A(2) to charges that are currently pending.

B, Inthe past ten years, have you or any adisory afte:
(0) been convicted of or plead guilty or nolo contendere ("no contest) ina domestic,
foreign, or military court to. misdemeanor involving: investment or an
invesment-relaed business, oF any fad ale statements, or omissions, wrongful
taking of propery, bribery, perjury, forgery, counterfeiting, extortion, oF a
conspiracy to commit any ofthese offenses?

©) been charged with a misdemeanor listed in U1.B(1)? mo]

~ Ifyou are registered or registering with the SEC, you may limit your response to Item
11.B(2) 10 charges that are currently pending:

For"yes" answers to the following question, complete a Regulatory Action DRP:

(€. Has the SEC or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) ever: YES NO

(1) found you or any advisory affiliate to have made a false statement or omission? ©

@) found you or any advisory affiliate to have been involved ina violation of SEC or ©
CFTC regulations or stattes?

(8) found you o any advisory affiliate tohave been a cause ofan inveximentrelated EY
busines having ts authorization to do business denied, suspended, revoked, or
restricted?

(4) entered an order ngainst you o ay advisory affiliate in connection with investment- © KY
related activity?

(8) imposed a civil money penalty on you or ny advisory affiliate, or ordered youor By
any advisory afiiate to cease and desist from any activity?

. Has any other federal regulatory agency, any state regulatory agency, or any foreign
financial regulatory authority:
(1) ever found you or any advisory affiliate to have made a false statement or omission, KJ
oor been dishonest, unfair, or unethical?

hutp://www adviserinfo,sec.gov/IAPD/ContentViewForn/ ADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAllPag.... 11/7/2007
View All Pages Page 17 of $9

(2) ever found you or any advisory affiliate to have been involved in aviation ot = JC
Jnvesmen-relaed regulations or statutes?
(@) ever found you or any advisor affiliate to have been a cause of an investment

related business having its authorization todo business denied, suspended, revoked,
rrestricted?

(4) the past ten years, entered an order against you or any advisory afiatein
onnettion with an invesmen-related activity?

(5) ever denied, suspended, o revoked your or any advisory afiate’segistaion or
license, o otherwise prevented you or any advisory fiat, by order, rom
associating with an ivesiment-related business or reticted your or any adhsory
cafe's activity?

E. Has any self-regulatory organization or commodities exchange ever:
(1) found you o any advisory affiliate to have made a false statement or omission? e
(2) found you or any advisory affitiate wo have been involved in a violation of ts rules © EE]

(other than a violation designated esa "minor rade violation” under a plan approved
by the SEC)?
(@) found you or any advisory affiliate to have been the cause ofan imvesiment-related EY
business having ts auhorization to do business denied, suspended, revoked, or
restricted?
(4) disciplined you or any advisory affiliate by expeling o suspending you orthe = J
‘advisory affiliate from membership, baring of suspending you ofthe advisory
“affiliate for association with other members, or otherwise restricting your or the
advisory affiliate's activities?

F, Hasan authorization to act as an attorney, accountant, of federal contractor grantedto EB

you or any advisory afliate ever been revoked or suspended?

G. Are you or any advisory afliate now the subject of any regulatory proceeding that = YC
could result in a "yes" answer to any part of Item 11.C.,11.D., or ILE?
For. "yes" answers to the following questions, complete a Civil Judicial Action DRP:
H. (1) Has any domestic or foreign court: YESNO
(@) in the past ten years, enjoined you or any advisory affiliate in connection with CE
any investment related activity?
(b) ever found that you or any advisory affiliate were involved in a violationof =
Invesment-related statutes. o regulations?
(© ever dismissed, pursuant toa setlement agreement, an imestment-related civil © EB
action brought against you or any advisory affiliate by a state or foreign
Financial regulatory authority?

(2) Are you or any advisory affiliate now the sabject of any civil proceeding hat YC
could result ina "yes" answer to any part of Item 11.H(1)?

FORM ADV OMB: 3235-0049
UNIFORM APPLICATION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRATION

Intp:/ww.adviserinfo.sec.gov/1APD/Contenl/ViewForm/ADV/Sections/ispd_AdvAlIPag.... 11/7/2007
LL

View All Pages Page 18 of 59

Business Name: HARRIS ASSOCIATES LP

[The SEC is required by the Regulatory Flexibility Act to consider the effect of its regulations on small
entities. in order to do this, we need to determine whether you meet the definition of “small business”
or "small organization” under rule 0-7

‘Answer this Item 12 only if you are registered or registering with the SEC and you indicated in
response to Item 5.F(2X¢) that you have assets under management of less than $25 million. You are
not required to answer ths Item 12 if you are filing for intial registration as a state adviser, amending
a current state registration, or switching from SEC to state registration,

For purposes ofthis tem 12 only:

‘© Total Assets refers to the total assets of a firm, rather than the assets managed on behalf of
client. In determining your or another person's total assets, you may use the total assets shown,
‘on a current balance sheet (but use total assets reported on a consolidated balance sheet with
subsidiaries included, if that amount is larger)

‘* Control meuns the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a
‘person, whether through ownership of securities, by contract, or otherwise. Any person that
directly or indirectly has the right to vote 25 percent or more of the voting securities, or is
entitled to 25 percent or more of the profits, of another person is presumed to coatrol the other

person.
YESNO
: Did you have total assets of $5 million or more on the ast day of your most recent gg
fiscal year?
If "yes," you do not need to answer Items 12.B. and 12.C.
B, Doy.
‘control another investment adviser that had assets under management of $25 gg
(2 million or more onthe last day of its most recent fiscal year?
{@ <entrol another person (other than a natural person) that had tol asses of $5 gg

rillion or more on the last day of its most recent fiscal year?
. Ate you:
‘controlled by or under common control with another investment adviser that had
(1) assets under management of $25 million or more on the lst day of its most recent ©
fiscal year?
controlled by or under common control with another person (other than a natural

(2) person) that had total assets of $5 million or more onthe last day ofits most recent © ©
fiscal year?

FORM ADV ‘OMB: 3235-0049
UNIFORM APPLICATION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRATION

Ito:/www adviserinfo.sec.gov/IAPD/Conten/V iewFornVADV/Sections/apd_AdvAlIPag.... 11/7/2007
View All Pages Page 19 of $9

rimary Business Nat

HARRIS ASSOCIATES LP ARD/CRD Number: 106960
Rev. 02200:

Part 2 Brochures

FORM ADV ‘OMB: 3235-0049
UNIFORM APPLICATION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRATION

Inup:/www adviserinfo.sec.gov/IAPD/Conten/ViewFornVADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAllPag.... 11/7/2007
View All Pages Page 20 of 59

JARD/CRD Number: 106960
Rev.0

[Form ADV. Schedule A

Direct Owners and Executive Officers
‘Complete Schedule A only if you are submitting an initial application. Schedule A asks for
1. information about your direct owners and executive officers. Use Schedule C to amend this,
information.
2. Direct Owners and Executive Officers. List below the names of:
‘each Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operations Officer, Chief Legal
(a) Officer, Chief Compliance Oificer(Chief Compliance Officer is required and cannot be more
‘than one individual), director, and any other individuals with similar status or functions;
if you are organized as a corporation, each sharcholder that is a direct owner of 5% or more of
a class of your voting securities, unless you are a public reporting company (a company
subject to Section 12 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act);

Direct owners include any person that owns, beneficially owns, has the right wo vote, or has
(©) he power to sell or direct the sale of, 5% or more of aclass of your voting securities. For
purposes of this Schedule, a person beneficially owns any securities: () owned by his/her
child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law, sharing the same
residence; oF (i) that he/she has the right to acquire, within 60 days, through the exercise of
any option, warrant, o right o purchase the security
if you are organized as a partnership, ll general partners and those limited and special
(6) parners that have the right receive upon dissolution, or have contibuted, 5% or more of|
your capital;
in the case of a trust that directly owns 5% or more ofa clas of your voting securities, or that
(ahs the righ 1o receive upon dissolution, or has contributed, 5% or more of your capital, the
trust and each trustee; and
if you are organized asa limited liability company ("LLC"), (i) those members that have the
(6) eight to receive upon dissolution, or have contebuted, 5% oF more of your capital and (i) if
‘managed by lected managers, all elected managers.
3:Do you have any indirect owners to be reported on Schedule BY Elyes © No
In the DE/FEA colum below, enter "DE" ifthe owner is domestic entity, "FE" if the owner is
4. an entity incorporated or domiciled in a foreign county, or" if the owner or exccutve officer is
an individual
‘Complete the Tite or Status column by entering board/management tiles; status as partner,
5. trustec, sole proprietor, lected manager, shareholder, or member: and for sharcholders or
members, the class of securities owned (if more than on is issued).
‘Ownership codes. NA-lessthan 5% B- 10% but less than D- 50% but less than

ate 23% 13%
A. 5% but less than C- 25% but less than E - 75% or more
10% 50%

7.(a) In the Control Person column, enter "Yes" ifthe person has control as defined in the Glossary
of Terms to Form ADV, and enter "No" if the person does not have control. Note that under

bhutp:/\vww adviserinfo.sec.gov/IAPD/Content/ViewForm/ADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAliPag.... 11/7/2007
‘View All Pages Page 21 of 59

this definition, most executive officers and all 25% owners, general partners, elected
managers, and trustees are control persons,

(inthe PR column, ener "PR" if the owner i a public reporting company under Sections 12 or
15(é) of the Exchange Act.
(©) Complete each column,

TLL TEGAL[DEsREIfiie we Sams [Due Tae Owncntp] Corot PRICRD No
Ant Sans cde" [renon | [fone
adidas: Last aed No
Nae, Ft Name nny Dae
Pail Nano) “Bi,
ins Tax
No. or
yr
ike
FARRIS :
cenexat -
associates fo fpesmmar —fomoes fax ys Ba
SATS
GLOBAL ASSET oRPP. .
MANAGEMENT {PF SHAREHOLDER |/!/1995 INA N fs2a1308
frowoises tie
RATS
6LopAL asser Io fpawrwzeorruefionms fe fy | Pia g:
pinnae eeucant |
TERRO. DAVID. J, [ICE PRESIDENT re
[beecony ft forecroxor ce [282 9997
GIAIRMAN,
ower
.EVY, ROBERT, INVESTMENT
Levy roper.,  Jorricer 2003
; owtestic
JEQUITY &
Diurctor oF GP
FrReasunen
rowset, HEE
ist b  riwaxcia — fionoos
PINEBtRG rice
Drarcros oF ce
PRESIDENT, CEO
rarraoun.e fi ebikectok or fovze
NCE PRESIDENT
EALLJANET. ENERAL
EE COUNSEL & pa2001

ISECRETARY

hito:/www adviserino sec gov/1APD/ContentViewForm/ ADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAlIPag.... 11/7/2007
View All Pages, Page 22 of 59
Vice PRESIDENT.
IBERGHOEF, DIRECTOR OF . 7
HENRY, R ‘ DOMESTIC pros JN IN pssoees
ESEARCHL
VICE PRESIDENT
1 AND DIRECTOR
Rouere a. UE FE v200s._ JNA 345091
ROBERT. INTERNATIONAL
ESEARCHL
INCFARLAND.
COLIN, 62005 NA Iv Js904ss
PATRICK.
1072006 JNA IN ppsisiet
har006 JNA IN fis19203,
hosase2

wtcnant 502866
Ser |
Were]
ean, AND MANAGING
frcaé n srasa
jose
RELATIONS
; DIRECTOR OF
evant. |; [Gevrean Jasaoor fa bs Jososeer
paRTNen

[DIRECTOR OF
GENERAL p4n007 [NA
"ARTNER

HIEF
I PERATING pooT INA
FFICER,

FORM ADV

[ARD/CRD Number: |

UNIFORM APPLICATION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRAT)
Business Name: HARRIS ASSOCIATES

[Form ADV, Schedule B

bntp://www.adviserinfo.sec.gov/IAPD/Contenv/ViewForm/ADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAllPag.

17007
nn ee

View All Pages Page 23 of $9

Indirect Owners
Complete Schedule B only if you are submitting an initial aplication. Schedule B asks for informa
1. indirect owners: you must first complete Schedule A, which asks for information about your direct ©
‘Schedule C to amend this information,
2 Indirect Owners. With respect to each owner listed on Schedule A (except individual owners), list be
inthe case of an owner that is a corporation, each ofits shareholders that beneficially owns, has 1
‘or has the power to sell or direct the sale of, 25% or more of a class ofa voting security of that cx

(0) For purposes ofthis Schedule» person beneficially ovas ary seers: () owned by har ch
grandchild, paren, stepperent,gradparen, spouse bling, mother i-la, aber naw. Sorin
{Ecaw, brother ia-lws or sacle, sharing the sare realdcace: or (0) that e/she ha the i
within 60 days, through the exercise of any option, warrant, or right to purchase the securi

(py ithe case of an owner that is a partnership, all general partners and those limited and special pa
the right o receive upon disoltion, or have cosributed, 25% or more ofthe partnerships epi
(@ inthe ase of an owner thai ts the rst nd each ste; and
‘in the case of an owner that is a limited liability company ("LLC"), (i) those members that have t
(@receive upon disoluion, oc bave conte, 25% or more ofthe LLC’ capital, and (i) if mana,
tmmagens al lected manager
Continue up the chain of ownership ing ll 25% owners at cach level. Once a public eprtng co
3. company subject to Sections 12 or 15(d) ofthe Exchange Act) is reached, no furber ownership inf
4. Inthe DE/FEM column below, enter “DE ifthe owner isa domestic entity, "FE" ithe owner isan
Incorporated oe domicled in foreign country or “Tf the owners on tdiviuad
sg, Complete the Status cokran by een the owe’ sais parr, ties cleced manager, shan
member, and fr shareholders or members, the clas of secures owned (if more than one i ised)
C- 25% but ess than 30% E-75% or more

6 Ownership codes sr: 5 Som but esa than 79%, F- Othe (general pater, tste or elected man

Inthe Control Person colunn enter "Yes" if the person has controls defined inte Glosary ot

7. (@) ADV, and eater "No" if the person dows nothaveconiol. Not hat unde this definition, most
td all 25% owner, general peter, led rangers. and see are contol persons

¢e lithe PR column ester "PRif the owner publi reporting company under Sections 12 o 1S

Exchange Act
(©) Complete each column,
[DEMFEEntity in Which [Status [Pate Status Jownership]{Contre
quired Code |Persor
bvvyyy|
‘AISSES Fe ISHAREHOLDER|11/2006 jc v
D'EPARGNE

hhup:/!www-adviserinfo.sec-gov/IAPD/ContentViewFomVADV/Sectionsiapd_AdvAlIPag.... 11/7/2007
View All Pages Page 24 of 59

SLOBAL ASSET ATIXIs g tuanetionven|
MANAGEMENT fe JSEBALASSET [Coxon pvao0s y
Partictpatioss| Tock)

r (CORPORATION
INATINIS INATIXIS

LOBAL ASSET LOBAL ASSET LIMITED hov2000 ly
|ANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT PARTNER a

‘ORPORATION.

INATIXIS ASSET

IS ASSET GENERAL ;
Ibe MANAGEMENT, [Pert ace fov2000 fr lv

NATIXIS,
SLOBAL ASSET

MANAGEMENT ISHAREHOLDER||0/1995 ly
HOLDINGS. LLC
INATIXIS ATIXIS
SLOBAL ASSET SLOBAL ASSET
MANAGEMENT. [PP [MANAGEMENT [MEMBER ronses Ye rr
LP. HOLDINGS
INATIXIS
ATIXIS ;LOBAL ASSET
GLOBAL ASSET fe JMANAGEMENT_SHAREHOLDER|ps/2008 v
MANAGEMENT JPARTICIPATIONS}
f
Banque
EDERALEDES fee INATIXIS ISHAREHOLDER]|I1/2006 jc
KE XPB 1 ISHAREHOLDER}}11/2006 Y

[SHAREHOLDER]
(SERIES A
[PREFERRED
ISTOCK)

{ATIXIS ASSET
SLOBAL ASSET [FE
|ANAGEMENT

porone — fe

JManacement [PF — |Manacemenr MEMBER

[CORPORATION LC

FORM ADV OMB: 3235-0049

torn thaww adviserinfo sec,eov/1APD/ContenyViewFomVADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAlIPag.... 11/7/2007
—eeEEOeeEEE—EeEeEeEOEEEEEeEeEeEEeeee@™©™“”-

‘View All Pages Page 25 of 59

UNIFORM APPLICATION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRATION
Business Name: HARRIS ASSOCIATES LP TARD/CRD Number: 106960

[Form ADV, Schedule D

[ection 1.B, Other Business Names

ist your other business names and the jurisdictions in which you use them. You must complete a
arate Schedule D for each business name.

'No Information Filed

ction LF. Other Offices
omplete the following information for each office, other than your principal office and place of
siness, at which you conduct investment advisory business. You must complete a separate
Schedule D Page 1 for each location. If you are applying for registration, or are registered, only with
[the SEC, list only the largest five (in terms of numbers of employees).
'No Information Filed

ction 11, World Wide Web Site Addresses

ist your World Wide Web site addresses. You must complete a separate Schedule D for each
jorld Wide Web site address,

[Wor Wide Web Site Address: WWW.HARRISASSOCCOM
ord Wide Web Site Address: WWW.HARRISINST.COM.

e registered. You must complete a separate Schedule D Page 2 for each foreign financial
regulatory authority with whom you are rei _
glish Name of Foreign Financial Regulatory Authority
INTARIO SECURITIES COMMISSION

inglish Name of Foreign Financial Regulatory Authority
IRISH FINANCIAL REGULATORY AUTHORITY

Name of Country
IRELAND

[English Name of Foreign Financial Regulatory Authority
[BRITISH COLUMBIA SECURITIES COMMISSION

hp: /lwwwadviserinfo.sec-gov/IAPD/ContenV iewFomVADV/Sectionviapd_AdvAllPag.... 11/7/2007
View All Pages Page 26 of $9

IName of Country

‘ANADA.

If you are relying on rule 203-2(d), the newly formed adviser exemption from the prohibition on
registration, you ate required to make certain representations about your eligibility for SEC
registration. By checking the appropriate boxes, you will be deemed to have made the required
representations. You must make both ofthese representations:

Fam not registered or required to be registered with the SEC oa state securities authority and |
have a reasonable expectation that I will be eligible to register withthe SEC within 120 days
after the date my registration with the SEC becomes effective.

‘undertake to withdraw from SEC registration if, on the 120th day after my registration with
the SEC becomes effective, I would be prohibited by Section 203A(a) of the Advisers Act from
registering with the SEC.

fsx ZA) Mulli-State Adviser |
if you are relying on rule 203A-2(e), the multi-state adviser exemption from the prohibition on

registration, you are required to make certain representations about your eligibility for SEC
registration. By checking the appropriate boxes, you will be deemed to have made the required
representations.

If you are applying for registration as an investment adviser with the SEC, you must make both of

these representations:

F Ihave reviewed the applicable state and federal laws and have concluded that I am required by
the laws of 30 oF more states to register as an investment adviser with the securities authorities
in those states

TF Lundertake to withdraw from SEC registration if | file an amendment to this registration
indicating that I would be requized by the laws of fewer than 25 states to register as an
investment adviser withthe securities authorities of those states.

If you are submitting your annual updating amendment, you must make this representation:
Within 90 days prior to the date of filing this amendment, Ihave reviewed the applicable state

and federal laws and have concluded that I am required by the laws of atleast 25 states to
register as an investment adviser with the securities authorities in those stats.

jection 2.A(I1) SEC Exemptive Order
‘No information Filed

“orm ADV. you must complete a separate Schedule D Page 3 for each acquired firm. See Part 1A
struction 4.

‘nnn aww adviserinfo.sec.sov/IAPD/Contenv/V iewFomm/ADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAIIPag.... 11/7/2007
nT

View All Pages Page 27 of 59

If you area portfolio manager for one or more wrap fee programs, lst the name of each program
d its sponsor. You must complete a separate Schedule D Page 3 for each wrap fee program for

[Name of Wrap Fee Program
|LOBAL MANAGER STRATEGIES SEPARATE ACCOUNT PROGRAM

[sew CAPITAL MANAGEMENT. L.P.

iliat i (check only one box):

‘nto: /www adviserinfo,sec,gov/IAPDIContentViewForm/ADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAllPag.... 11/7/2007
NEE

View All Pages Page 28 of 59

}© Dual (Investment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

{filiated Investment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)
jso1- $3421

(filiate's CRD Number (if any):

“gal Name of Affiliate:
CAPITAL GROWTH MANAGEMENT, LP.

[Primary Business Name of Affiliate:
‘APITAL GROWTH MANAGEMENT, LP.

lastitiate is (check only one box):

Investment Adviser

© Broker - Dealer

© Dual (lavestment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

filiated Investment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)

Jegal Name of Affiliate:

imary Business Name of Affliate:
[Loons. SAYLES COMPANY. LP.

ffiliate is (check only one box):

Ediavestment Adviser

© Broker - Dealer

© Dual (lavestment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

(fiiated Investment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)
1-170,

JAttitiate's CRD Number (i any)

Intra ww adviserino sec. gov/IAPD/ContenvViewForn/ADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAlIPag... 11/7/2007
OI  —————

View All Pages Page 29 of $9

Primary Business Name of Affiliate:
IXIS ASSET MANAGEMENT ADVISORS, L.P,
[Atrtiate is (check only one box):

[Edtavestment Adviser

© Broker - Dealer

© Dual (Investment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

|asfiliated lavestment Adviser's SEC File Number (if sny)
lso1- 43.408

filate's CRD Number (if any):
hosso0.

[Legal Name of Affliate:
JREICH & TANG ASSET MANAGEMENT, LLC

[Primary Business Name of Affiliate:
IREICH & TANG ASSET MANAGEMENT, LLC
laffitiate is (check only one box):

Investment Adviser
© Broker - Dealer
© Dual (lavestment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

[Affiliated investment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)
lso1- 47230

|Atfiliate's CRD Number (if any):
06186,

[Legal Name of Affiliate:
|SNYDER CAPITAL MANAGEMENT. L.P.

Primary Business Name of Affiliate:
ISNYDER CAPITAL MANAGEMENT, L.P.
Latfitiate is (check only one box):

PEdiavestment Adviser

© Broker - Dealer

© Dual (Investment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

ii
is01-

ted Investment Advisers SEC File Number (if any)

bos! www.adviserinfo.sec.gow/IAPD/Conten/ViewFornv ADV/Sectionsiapd_AdvAUlPag.... 11/7/2007

View All Pages

| acttiate's CRD Number (if any):
lossis

Page 30 of 59

2gal Name of Affiliate:
VAUGHAN NELSON INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT LP.

Primary Business Name of Affliate:
VAUGHAN NELSON INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT L.?.
Latrtiate is (check only one box):

investment Adviser
© Broker - Dealer
© Dual (Investment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

[Affiliated Investment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)
is01- $1798

[Affiliate's CRD Number (if any):
hooo7s,

[Legal Name of Affiliate:
VAUGHAN NELSON TRUST COMPANY

Primary Business Name of Affiliate:
VAUGHAN NELSON TRUST COMPANY
Lasritiate is (check only one box):

Investment Adviser
© Broker - Dealer
© Dual (Investment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

[Affiliated Investment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)
1- 29438

filiate's CRD Number (if any)
tos782

gal Name of Affilate:
'ESTPEAK GLOBAL ADVISORS, L.P,

Primary Business Name of Affiliate:
IWESTPEAK GLOBAL ADVISORS. LP.

|Afilite i (check only one bor
[REdtavestment Adviser
© Broker-Dealer

hhup://www adviserinfo.see.gov/IAPD/Conteny/ViewFomVADV/Sectionv/iapd_AdvAIPag,

Lumao07
View All Pages Page 31 of 59

© Dual (lavestment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

[Affiliated Investment Adviser's SEC File Number (if ny)
lso1- 30584

laffitiate's CRD Number (if any):
106769

HLegal Name of Affiliate:
JNATIXIS GLOBAL ASSET MANAGEMENT

Primacy Business Name of Affiliate:
INATIXIS GLOBAL ASSET MANAGEMENT
iliate is (check only one box):
© Investment Adviser
© Broker - Dealer
al (Investment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

[Affiliated Investment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)

[Legal Name of Affiliate:
CURZON GLOBAL PARTNERS LTD.

[Primary Business Name of Affiliate:
CURZON GLOBAL PARTNERS LD,

lea: ite is (check only one box):
Investment Adviser

© Broker - Dealer

© Dual (Investment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

[Affiliated Investment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)
i01-

|Affiliate's CRD Number (if any):

lLegal Name of Affliate:
IiXis ASSET MANAGEMENT AUSTRALIA LIMITED.

Primary Business Name of Affiliate:

butp://www adviserinfo.sec,gov/IAPD/ContenU/ViewForn/ADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAlIPag.... 11/7/2007
——

View All Pages Page 32 of 59

IiXIS ASSET MANAGEMENT AUSTRALIA LIMITED

[Affiliate is (check only one box):
Investment Adviser
© Broker - Dealer
foal (Investment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

[Affiliated Investment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)
jso1-

[Aefiliate’s CRD Number (if any):

[Legal Name of Affiliate
|AEW MANAGEMENT AND ADVISORS LP.

[Primary Business Name of Affiliate:
|AEW MANAGEMENT AND ADVISORS LP.

IAffiliate is (check only one box):
westment Adviser
© Broker - Dealer
© Dual (lavestment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

|AAtitiated investment Advisers SEC File Number (if aay)
jso1- 43034

(filiate's CRD Number (if any):

08638.
|

[Legal Name of Affliate:
"ASPIAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LLC

[Primary Business Name of Affiliate:
‘ASPIAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LLC

(iliate is (check only one box):
investment Adviser
© Broker - Dealer
© Dual (lavestment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

|Atttiated tnvestment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)
jso1-

ffiliate’s CRD Number (if any)

ee

bntp://www adviserinfo,sec,gov/IAPD/Conten/ViewFomm/ADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAllPag..._ 11/7/2007
OO OO EE OO EE Oe

View All Pages

Page 33 of 59

ESSE WNACE evr asia 0
inten oe on
Bn se
© Broker - Dealer
© Dual (Investment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)
(tel esa Advise’ SEC Fle Nae an)
P"
lites noe
vee A
© Broker - Dealer
© Dual (Investment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)
on

[Affiliat's CRD Number (if any)

sgal Name of Affi
IXIS ASSET MANA\

EMENT JAPAN CO.. LTD. |
[Primary Business Name of Affilate:

IIXIS ASSET MANAGEMENT JAPAN CO.,LTD.
|Afritate is (check only one box):

Piavesimemt Adviser

© Broker - Dealer

© Dual (lavestment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

Innp:/www.adviserinfo.sec.gov/IAPD/Conten/ViewFornVADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAUPag.... 11/7/2007
eee
‘View All Pages Page 34 of 59
(iiated Investment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)

js01.

[Affiliate's CRD Number (if any)

gal Name of Affiliate:
IXIS PRIVATE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT

Primary Business Name of Affiliate:

[XIS PRIVATE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
latttiaeis (check only one box)

PEdiavessment Adviser

© Broker - Dealer

(© Dual (lavestment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

JAffiliated Investment Advisers SEC File Number (if any)
fs01-

ffiliate’s CRD Number (if any):

gal Name of Affiliate:
ECUREUIL GESTION

imary Business Name of Affiliate:

:CUREUIL GESTION

LAstitiate is (check only one box):

investment Adviser

© Broker - Dealer

‘© Dual (Investment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

ffiliated Investment Adviser's SEC File Number (if ny)

801-

[Atriate's CRD Number (if any)

-

gal Name of Affiliate:
NATIXIS GLOBAL ASSOCIATES UK LIMITED

Primary Business Name of Affiliate:
INATIXIS GLOBAL ASSOCIATES UK LIMITED

(iliat is (check only one box):

‘np:/www.adviserinfo.sec.gov/1APD/Content/V iewFornVADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAllPag.... 11/7/2007
View All Pages Page 35 of 59

[Bliavestment Adviser
© Broker - Dealer
© Dual (lavestment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

|asrtiated lavestment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)
so

|affliate's CRD Number (if any):

Legal Name of Affiliate:
IXIS AEW ITALIA SPA.

[Primary Business Name of Affiliate:
IiXIS AEW ITALIA S.A.
Lastitiate is (check only one box):
Investment Adviser
© Broker - Dealer
© Dual (lavestment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

|arritiated Investment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)
jsor-

(filiate's CRD Number (if any)

—

{Legal Name of Affiliate:
IXXIs AEW EUROPE

[Primary Business Name of Affiliate:
[IXIs AEW EUROPE

latfiliate is check only one box):

Investment Adviser

© Broker - Dealer

© Dual (lavestment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

[Atritiated Investment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)
jso1-

|Atfliate's CRD Number (i any)

———— |

[Legal Name of Affiliate:
JIXIS CORPORATE & INVESTMENT BANK

‘ntty:/twww.adviserinfo.sec.gow/IAPD/Conten/ViewFomvADV/Sections/iapd_AdVAIPag... 11/7/2007
LL

\ ow Pages Page 36 of $9

Primary Business Name of Affiliate:
IIS CORPORATE & INVESTMENT BANK

filiate i (check only one box):
© Investment Adviser

ffiliated Investment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)
I

lilate's CRD Number (if any):

gal Name of Affiliate:
|ATIXIS SECURITIES NORTH AMERICA INC.

imary Business Name of Affiliate:

INATIXIS SECURITIES NORTH AMERICA INC.
filiate is (check only one box):

© tavestment Adviser

©. Broker - Dealer

al (Investment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

filiat's CRD Number (if any):
ps7:

egal Name of Affiliate:
{XIS OVERSEAS FUND MANAGEMENT S.A.

mary Business Name of Affiliate:
IIXIS OVERSEAS FUND MANAGEMENT S.A,

© Broker - Dealer
© Dual (lavestment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

Affiliated Investment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)
801-

wrmww adviserinfo.sec.gov/IAPD/Content/ViewFonn/ADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAlIPag.... 11/7/2007
View All Pages

lattilite's CRD Number (if any)
|Legal Name of Affiliate:
[CDC TRESOR S.A.

JPrimary Business Name of Affiliate:
ICDC TRESOR S.A.

let (check only one box):
Investment Adviser

© Broker - Dealer

© Dual (lavestment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

[Affiliated Investment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)
lso1-

|Atttiate's CRD Number (if any):

Page 37 of 59

Legal Name of Affiliate:
|GESTION FINANCIERE INTERNATIONAL S.A.

[Primary Business Name of Affiliate:
[GESTION FINANCIERE INTERNATIONAL S.A.
LAstitiate is (check only one box):

Investment Adviser
}© Broker - Dealer
© Dual (lavestment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

|Atfitiated Investment Adviser's SEC File Number (i any)
iso1-

|Aifiiat's CRD Number (if any):

[Legal Name of Affiliate:
HARRIS ALTERNATIVES LLC.

Primary Business Name of Affiliate

IHARRIS ALTERNATIVES L.L-C.

|attitiate is (check only one box):
Investment Adviser

© Broker - Dealer

urn /fwsew adviserinfo sec. eov/tAPD/Content/ViewFornv ADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAllPag..

inner

a

View All Pages Page 38 of 59

© Dual (investment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

| Atritiated Investment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)
fso1- 62103,

|Affiliate's CRD Number (i any)
127065

$$$ $$$}
[Legal Name of Affiliate:
HARRIS ASSOCIATES SECURITIES LP.

[Primary Business Name of Affilate

HARRIS ASSOCLATES SECURITIES LP.

(filiate is (cheek only one box):
© tavestment Adviser

roker- Dealer

© Dual (Investment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)
|Adntiated investment Advisers SEC File Number (if any)
{s01- 19988
[Afritiate's CRD Number (if any):
[4959

}Legal Name of Affiliate:
JECUREUIL GESTION FCP

Primary Business Name of Affiliate:
ECUREUIL GESTION FCP

kg te is (check only on bos

investment Adviser

© Broker - Dealer

© Dual (lavestment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

|atitiatedtnvestment Advisers SEC File Number (i any)
th

|Affiliate's CRD Number (if any)

gal Name of Affiliate:
|ASAHILNVEST INVESTMENT ADVISORY CO.,LTD.

Primary Business Name of Affiliate:

huto:www.adviserinfo.sec.gov/IAPD/Content/V iewFomvADV/Sectionviapd_AdvAIPag.... 11/7/2007
View All Pages Page 39 of $9

ASAHI-NVEST INVESTMENT ADVISORY CO.,LTD.

lAffilite is (check only one box):
investment Adviser

© Broker - Dealer

}© Dual lavestment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

Jastitiated tnvestment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)
lso1-

[Affliate's CRD Number (if any):

[Legal Name of Affiliate:
"AISSE NATIONALE DES CAISSES DEPARGNE

[Primary Business Name of Affiliate:

‘AISSE NATIONALE DES CAISSES DEPARGNE.

|Asiliate is (check only one box)
© Investment Adviser

© Broker - Dealer

I (lavestment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

(fiiated Investment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)
n

|Astiiate's CRD Number (if any)

gal Name of Affiliate:
"URZON GLOBAL ADVISORY LTD,

Primary Business Name of Afhliate:
'URZON GLOBAL ADVISORY LTD.

[Affiliate is (check only one box):
investment Adviser

© Broker - Dealer

© Dual (lavestment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

(fiiated Investment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)
fsor-

JAffiliate's CRD Number (if any)

a

Innn:/iwwwadviserinfo.sec.gov/IAPD/Conten/ViewForm/ADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAlIPag.... 11/7/2007
View All Pages

[Legal Name of A\filite:
|CGW GESTION D'ACTIFS SAS

Primary Business Name of Affiliate:
CGW GESTION D'ACTIES SAS

|astitiate is (check only one box):

westment Adviser

© Broker - Dealer

© Dual (Investment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

|ssritiated tavestment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)
lso1-

[astiliae's CRD Number (if any):

Page 40 of 59

Legal Name of Affiliate:
JEPI ADVISORY SARL.

[Primary Business Name of Affiliate:
lEPL ADVISORY SARL

laffiliate is (check only one box):

Etiavestment Adviser

© Broker - Dealer

© Dual (Investment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

(filiated livestment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)
lso1-

[atttiae's CRD Number (if any)
JLegal Name of Affiliate:
lPBW REAL ESTATE ASSET MANAGEMENT BY

Primary Business Name of Affiliate:
lPBW REAL ESTATE ASSET MANAGEME!

TBY

Latrtiate is (check only one box):
jnvestment Adviser

© Broker - Dealer

© Dual (lavestment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

—————SSss— |

hup:/\vww adviserinfo sec. gov/IAPD/Content/ViewForm/ADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAlIPag.... 11/7/2007
a

View All Pages Page 41 of 59

jated Investment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)

|atfliate's CRD Number (if any):

lLegal Name of Affiliate:
|AEW GLOBAL ADVISORS (EUROPE) LTD.

[Primary Business Name of Affiliate:
|AEW GLOBAL ADVISORS (EUROPE) LTD.
Affiliate is (check only one box):

Investment Adviser
© Broker - Dealer
© Dual (Investment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

|Astitiated Investment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)
jso1-

|Afiiate's CRD Number it

ny)

[Legal Name of Affiliate:
INATIXIS GLOBAL ASSOCIATES INC.

[Primary Business Name of Affiliate:
INATIXIS GLOBAL ASSOCIATES INC.

ti

iate is (check only one box):
investment Adviser

© Broker - Dealer

© Dual (lavestment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

Affiliated Investment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)
isol-

|Atfiliate’s CRD Number (if any):

ILegal Name of Affiliate:
COMPAGNIE DE GESTION ET DINVESTISSEMENTS IMMOBILIERS (COGIM)

[Primary Business Name of Affiliate:
COMPAGNIE DE GESTION E DINVESTISSEMENTS IMMOBILIERS (COGIM)

ffiliate is (check only one box):

htp://www adviserinfo.sec.gov/LAPD/Content/ViewFornvADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAlIPag.... 11/7/2007
View All Pages Page 42 of 59

Investment Adviser
© Broker - Dealer
© Dual (lavestment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

{filiated Investment Adviser’s SEC File Number (if any)
[sor

(liiate's CRD Number (if any):

Legal Manet Ati |
ARN ASSeT NaGeMENT

mary Business Name of Affiliate:
NATEXIS ASSET MANAGEMENT

(filiat i (check only one box):
livestment Adviser
© Broker - Dealer
© Dual (Investment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

filiated Investment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)
801.

[Affiliates CRD Number (if any):

[Legal Name of Affiliate:
INATEXIS ASSET MANAGE!

NT IMMOBILIE!

mary Business Name of Affilate:
|ATEXIS ASSET MANAGEMENT IMMOBILIER

© Broker - Dealer
© Dual (Investment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

(ilated Investment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)
s0l-

ffiliate's CRD Number (if any)

gal Name of Affiliate
JHANSBERGER GLOBAL INVESTORS. INC.

hutp:/www.adviserinfo.sec.gow/IAPD/Content/V iewFomvADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAlIPag.... 11/7/2007
View All Pages

[Primary Business Name of Affiliate:
JHANSBERGER GLOBAL INVESTORS. INC,

las is (check only one box)
investment Adviser
© Broker - Dealer

}© Dual (Investment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

[Affiliated Investment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)
jso1-

|Adfiliate's CRD Number (if any)
106039

Page 43 of 59

gal Name of Affilate:
PERCIPIO CAPITAL MANAGEMENT. LLC

imary Business Name of Affiliate:
[PERCIPIO CAPITAL MANAGEMENT, LLC
filiate is (check only one box):
Havestment Adviser
© Broker - Dealer
© Dual (lavestment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

[Affiliated Investment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)
jso1-

iliate's CRD Number (if any)

[Legal Name of Affliate:
JHANSBERGER GLOBAL INVESTORS (HK) LIMITED

[Primary Business Name of Affiliate:
JHANSBERGER GLOBAL INVESTORS (HK) LIMITED
[Aifiiate is (check only one boxy:

westment Adviser

© Broker - Dealer

© Dual (Investment Adviser and Broker-Dealer)

(fiiated Investment Adviser's SEC File Number (if any)
js01-

Innp:/srww.adviserinfo see, gov/IAPDIConten/ViewForn/ADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAliPag,

17007
View All Pages Page 44 of 59

Adtiiate's CRD Number (if any)

[Section 7.B. Limited Partnership Participation or Other Private Fund Participation

‘ou must complete a separate Schedule D Page 4 for each limited partnership in which you or a
elated person is a general partner, each limited lability company for which you or a related person
isa manager, and each other private fund that you advise

[Name of Limited Partnership, Limited Liability Company, or other Private Fund

JHARRIS ASSOCIATES INTERNATIONAL VALUE LP.

fame of General Partner or Manager:
HARRIS ASSOCIATES LP.

If you are registered or registering with the SEC, is this a “private fund” as defined under SEC rule
203(6,3)-1? Elves © No

|Are your clients solicited to invest inthe limited partnership, limited liability company, or other
private fund? Elves No

[Approximately what percentage of your clients have invested inthis limited partnership, limited

liability company, or other private fund?
1%

)Minimum investment commitment required of a limited partner, member, or other investor:
1000000

Current value of the total assets ofthe limited partnership, limited liability company, or other private

19173387355

‘Name of Limited Partnership, Limited Liability Company, or other Private Fund:
HARRIS ASSOCIATES SECURITIES LP.

[Name of General Partner or Manager:
HARRIS ASSOCIATES INC

If you are registered or egistering with the SEC. is this a “private fund” as defined under SEC rule
120300,3)-17 © Yes FEINo

[Are your cients solicited to invest inthe limited partnership, limited liability company, or other
rivate fund? © Yes Evo

pproximately what percentage of your clients have iavested inthis limited partnership, limited
liability company, or other private fund?

hp://www adviserinfo.sec.gov/IAPD/Contenw/ViewFomVADV/Sectionsiapd_AdvAIIPag.... 11/7/2007
View All Pages Page 45 of 59

‘urrent value of the total assets ofthe limited partnership, limited liability company, or other private}
fund:

iso

[Name of Limited Partnership, Limited Liability Company, or other Private Fund:

IARRIS ASSOCIATES LARGE CAP VALUE LP.

fame of General Partner or Manager:
HARRIS ASSOCLATES LP.

if you are registered or registering with the SEC. is this a "private fund” as defined under SEC rule
203(6);3)-1? Elves © No

[Are your clients solicited to invest in the limited partnership, limited liability company, or other
|private fund? Elves © No

‘pproximately what percentage of your clients have invested in this limited partnership limited
liability company, or other private fund?
0%

[Minimum investment commitment required of a limited partner, member, or other investor
[s 1000000

‘urrent value of the total assets ofthe limited partnership limited liability company, or other private

fund:

[s.10744330.63 _|
jame of Limited Partnership, Limited Liability Company, or other Private Fund:

HARRIS ASSOCIATES GLOBAL LARGE CAP LP.

‘Name of General Partner or Manager:
HARRIS ASSOCIATES LP.

“private fund" as defined under SEC rule
203(0)3)-17Kves. © No

your clients solicited to invest inthe limited partnership, limited liability company, or other
private fund? Elves © No

|Approximately what percentage of your clients have invested in this limited partnership, limited

liability company, or other private fund?
0%

Minimum investment commitment required of a limited partner, member, or other investor:
90000

‘urrent value of the total assets of the limited partnership, limited liability company, or other private
fund

{6100000

Ihup//www adviserinfo,sec,gov/1APD/ContentUViewFom/ADV/Sectionviapd_AdvAllPag.... 11/7/2007
a

View All Pages Page 46 of 59

ction 10 Control Persons
{You must complete a separate Schedule D Pag

4 Tor each control person not named in Nem LA. or

[Schedules A, B, or C that directly or indirectly controls zment or policies.
‘No Information Filed

[You may use the space below to explain a response 1o an Item o to provide any other information,
P-A: THE APPLICANT IS AN INDIRECT SUBSIDIARY OF IXIS ASSET MANAGEMENT
GROUP. AN INTERNATIONAL ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP BASED IN PARIS,
FRANCE. APPLICANT HAS A SUPPLEMENTARY LIST, WHICH IS AVAILABLE ON
IREQUEST, OF IT'S "RELATED PERSONS” THAT ARE FOREIGN INVESTMENT ADVISERS
IIN THE IXIS ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP. A FOREIGN RELATED ADVISER IS NOT
|LISTED IN SECTION 7.A OF SCHEDULE D IF: (1) APPLICANT HAS NO BUSINESS
JDEALINGS WITH THE FOREIGN RELATED ADVISER: (If) APPLICANT DOES NOT
‘CONDUCT JOINT OPERATIONS WITH THE FOREIGN RELATED ADVISER: (U1)
IAPPLICANT DOES NOT PROVIDE ADVICE THAT IS FORMULATED (IN WHOLE OR TN
"ART) BY THE FOREIGN RELATED ADVISER: AND (IV) THE FOREIGN RELATED
DVISER DOES NOT PRESENT A POTENTIAL CONFLICT OF INTEREST WITH.
APPLICANTS CLIENTS. 7.B: APPLICANT HAS RELATED PERSONS THAT ARE
EGISTERED AS INVESTMENT ADVISERS WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
OMMISSION AND WHICH SERVE AS GENERAL PARTNERS OF LIMITED.
PARTNERSHIPS, MANAGERS OF LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES AND ADVISERS OF
PRIVATE FUNDS NOT LISTED IN SECTION 7.B, OF THIS SCHEDULE D, INFORMATION
ABOUT THOSE LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS, LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES AND AND
[PRIVATE FUNDS IS AVAILABLE IN SECTION 7.8. OF SCHEDULE D OF THE FORM ADV
\F THOSE INVESTMENT ADVISERS. TO APPLICANT'S KNOWLEDGE, NONE OF
APPLICANT'S CLIENTS ARE SOLICITED TO INVEST IN ANY OF THOSE LIMITED
PARTNERSHIPS, LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES OR PRIVATE FUNDS.
(Sd

FORM ADV ‘OMB: 3235-0049
UNIFORM APPLICATION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRATION
TARD/CRD Number: 106960"
Rey

‘CRIMINAL DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGE (ADV)
‘No Information Filed

REGULATORY ACTION DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGE (ADV)

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS

This Disclosure Reporting Page (DRP ADV) is an © INITIAL ORE AMENDED response used
to report details for affirmative responses to Items 11.C., LL.D. LL.B, 1LF.oF 11.G. of Form ADV,

[Check item(s) being responded to:

hup:/www adviserinfo.sec.gov/IAPD/Conten/ViewFornvADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAUIPag.... 11/7/2007
by more than one regulator, provide details to each action on a separate DRP.

PARTI
[A. The person(s) or entities) for whom this DRP is being filed is (are:

View All Pages Page 47 0f 59

Regulatory Action
© ica F 1.0) © pa, © ILE)
© 11.c@ © pay © 1106) 5 ea
F ice) Biive Fie Tur
Fc © 11.pe) 5 1.6) Tis
Use a separate DRP for each event or proceeding. The same event or proceeding may be reported
for more than one person or enity using one DRP. File wth a completed Execution Page
[One event may result in more than one affirmative answer to lems 11.C., 1.D., LLB. 11.F. of
© You (the advisory firm)

© You and one or more of your advisory affiliates

11.G. Use only one DRP to report details related to the same event. If an event gives rise to actions
Bone or more of your advisory affiliates

If this DRP is being filed for an advisory afte, give the full name of the advisory affiliate
below (for individuals, Last name, First name, Middle name).

Ifthe advisory affiliate has a CRD number, provide that number. If not, indicate “non-
registered” by checking the appropriate box.

IV DRP - ADVISORY AFFILIATE.

CRD Namber This advisory affiliate is Ea Firm © an Individual

© yes ENo
NATIXIS (FORMERLY NATEXIS BANQUES POPULAIRES) (NBP)
- Middle)

‘This DRP should be removed from the ADV record because the advisory afliatets) is no
longer associated with the adviser.

© ‘This DRP should be removed from the ADV record because: (I) the event or proceeding
jccurred more than ten years ago or (2) the adviser is registered or applying for tegistration
with the SEC andthe event was resolved inthe adviser’ or advisory aia’ favor

Ifyou ae registered or registering witha state securities authority, you may remove & DRP
for an event you reported only in response to tem 11-D(4), and only if that event occurred
‘moe than ten years ago. Ifyou ae egistered or registering with the SEC, you may remove a
RP for any event listed in Item 11 that occurred more than ten year 380.

hap: /!www-adviserinfo.see-gov/1APD/Conten/ViewFornVADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAUIPag.... 11/7/2007
edd eee

View All Pages Page 48 of 59

B. If the advisory affiliate is registered through the IARD system or CRD system, has the
‘advisory afliate submitted a DRP (with Form ADV, BD or U-4) 0 the IARD or CRD for the
‘event? If the answer is "Yes,” no other information on this DRP must be provided.
“
Yes

NOTE: The completion ofthis form does not relieve the advisory affiliate ofits obligation to
update its LARD or CRD records,
PARTI
re
1. Regulatory Action initiated by:
© sec © Other Federal © State © SROD Foreign
(Full name of regulator, foreign financial regulatory authority, federal, state, oc SRO)
||_LAuTORITE DES MARCHES FINANCIERS (AME)
2. Principal Sanction:

‘Civil and Administrative Penalties) /Fine(s)

Other Sanctions:

REPRIMAND

3. Date Initiated (MM/DD/YY)
0129/2001 Exact © Explanation
not exact. provide explanation: |

4. DockeuCase Number: |

‘8. Advisory Affiliate Employing Firm when activity occurred which led to the regulatory action
(Gf applicable):

(6. Principal Product Type:
No Product
Other Product Types:

7. Describe the allegations related to this regulatory action (your response must fit within the
space provided):

INQUIRIES BY THE CONSEIL DES MARCHES FINANCIERS AND THE

COMMISSION DES OPERATIONS DE BOURSE REGARDING THE CUSTODIAN.

FUNCTION OF NBP, THE ORGANIZATION OF THE NBP SAFEKEEPING AND

ADMINISTRATION OF SECURITIES ACTIVITY, AND WEAKNESSES IN INTERNAL,

CONTROLS OF A SUBSIDIARY.

8._Current status? © Pending © On Appe: J

i-

hutp:/www.adviserinfo.sec.gov/1APD/Content/ViewFornvADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAllPag.... 11/7/2007
View All Pages Page 49 of $9

9. If on appeal, regulatory action appealed to (SEC, SRO,
‘Appeal Filed

Federal or State Court) and Date

If Final or On Appeal, complete all items below. For Pending Actions, complete Item 13 only.

10. How was matter resolved:
Decision

11. Resolution Date (MM/DD/YY):

06/24/2004 KEM exact © Explanation
If not exact, provide explanation:

12, Resolution Detail:
A. Were any ofthe following Sanctions Ordered (check all spproprite items)?

EX srovetarytrine Amout:$ 1338700

7 Revocation/Expulson/Denil 1 DisgorgemenvRestintion
© Censure F Cease and Desist/Iinjunction
© par suspension

B. Other Sanctions Ordered:

REPRIMAND,

Sanction detail: if suspended, enjoined or bared provide duration including start date
and capacities affected (General Securities Principal, Financial Operations Principal,
ste), If equalifiation by exanvretaning was a condition of the sanction, provise
length of time given to requalfyretrain, type of exam required and whether condition
has been satisfied. If cisposition resulted in fine, penalty, restitution, dsgorgement or
monetary compensation, prove otal amount, portion levied aginst you orn advisory
<afiae, date paid and if any portion of penalty was waved:

THE AMF PRONOUNCED A PENALTY OF 1100.00 EUROS (WHICH
CONVERTS TO $1,338,700, USING THE AVERAGE DAILY EXCHANGE RATE
FROM JUNE 24.2008) AGAINST NBP AND CERTAIN SUBSIDIARIES, THE
PENALTY IMPOSED WAS $00,000 EUROS AGAINST NBP (FORMERLY
NATIXIS CAPITAL). 300.000 EUROS AGAINST NBP, AND 300,000 EUROS
AGAINST NATEXIS BLEICHRODER SA.

13. Provide a brief summary of details related tothe action status and (or) disposition and include
relevant terms, conditions and dates (your response must fit within the space provided.)
HE AMF PRONOUNCED THE FOLLOWING PUBLIC SANCTIONS AGAINST NBP
AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES: A REPRIMAND AND PENALTY OF 500,000 EUROS
AGAINST NBP (FORMERLY NATIXIS CAPITAL), A REPRIMAND AND A PENALTY
‘OF 300.000 AGAINST NBP, AND A REPRIMAND AND A PENALTY OF 300,000
EUROS AGAINST NATEXIS BLEICHROEDER SA. SUBSEQUENTLY, NBP
REORGANIZED ITS CUSTODIAN CONTROL DEPARTMENT IN RELIANCE ON THE,

-itp:/www.adviserino,sec.gov/1APD/ContentViewForn/ ADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAlPag.... 11/7/2007
View All Pages Page 50 of 59

ADVICE OF OUTSIDE CONSULTANTS AND SET UP A STEERING COMMITTEE TO
MONITOR THE PROGRESS OF REMEDIAL WORK PLANS. NBP HAD ALREADY
DECIDED AT THE TIME THE SANCTIONS WERE PRONOUNCED TO DISSOLVE
THE SUBSIDIARY WITH RESPECT TO WHICH INTERNAL CONTROLS WERE.
INVESTIGATED.

(GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS

This Disclosure Reporting Page (DRP ADV) isan © INITIAL ORK AMENDED response used
to report details for affirmative responses to Items 11.C., 11.D., ILE. 11.F. or 11.G. of Form ADV.

Icheck item(s) being responded to:

if Regulatory Action
© aca) Pies F pa 5 11.88)
F 11.0) 5 pay Fp Fa)
F 11.08) 1.D@) 5 gay Cir
F ica) F pe Tie) Fis

Use a separate DRP for each event or proceeding. The same event or proceeding may be reported
for more than one person or entity using one DRP. File with a completed Execution Page.

lone event may result in more than one affirmative answer to Items 11.C., 11.D., ILE. 1LLF-of
11,G. Use only one DRP to report details related to the same event. Ifan event gives rise to actions
by more than one regulator, provide details to each action on a separate DRP.

PARTI

A. The person(s) or entity(ies) for whom this DRP is being filed is (are):
© You (the advisory firm)

© You and one or more of your advisory affiliates

hone or more of your advisory afiiates

If this DRP is being filed for an advisory afiiate, give the fll name of the advisory affiliate
below (for individuals, Last name, First name, Middle name).

If the advisory affiliate has a CRD number, provide that number. If not, indicate "non-
registered” by checking the appropriate box.

DV DRP - ADVISORY AFFILIATE

[CRD Number: ‘This advisory afiiace is Fa Firm © an individual
Registered: © Yes lo

hutp:/www adviserinfo.sec.gov/IAPD/Content/ViewForm/ADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAllPag.... 11/7/2007
View All Pages Page 51 of 59

Name: CAISSE NATIONALE DES CAISSE DEPARGNE
(For individuals, Last, First, Middle)

T This DRP should be removed from the ADV record because the advisory affiliate(s) is no
longer associated with the adviser.

© This DRP should be removed from the ADV record because: (1) the event or proceeding
‘occurred more than ten years ago or (2) the adviser is registered or applying for registration
with the SEC and the event was resolved in the adviser’s or advisory affiliate’ favo.

Ifyou are registered or registering with a state securities authority, you may remove a DRP
for an event you reported only in response to tem 11.D(4), and only if that event occurred
‘more than ten years ago. If you are registered or registering with the SEC, you may remove a
DRP for any event listed in lem 11 that occurred more than ten years ago.

B. Ifthe advisory alate i registered through the LARD system or CRD system, has the
‘advisory affiliate submited a DRP (with Form ADV, BD or U-4) to the IARD or CRD for the

event? ifthe answer is "Yes," no other information on this DRP must be provide.

© yellvo

NOTE: The completion ofthis form does not relieve the advisory aff
update its JARD or CRD records.

PART IL

re of its obligation to

1. Regulatory Action initiated by:
© sec © other Federal © State © SROKD Foreign

(Full name of regulator, foreign financial regulatory authority, federal, state, or SRO)
AUTORITE DES MARCHES FINANCIERS (AMF)

2, Principal Sanction:
Civil and Administative Penalties) (Fines)
Other Sanctions:

Date initiated (MM/DD/YYYY):
01/267200SKEH Exact © Explanation
If not exact, provide explanation:

4, DockevCase Number:

Advisory Affiliate Employing Firm when activity occurred which led to the regulatory action
(if applicable:

F rincpar Type

hutp:/www.adviserinfo see, gov/IAPDIConten/ViewForm/ ADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAlIPag.... 11/7/2007
View All Pages Page 52 of 59

Other

Other Product Types:

ACTION RELATED TO REGULATIONS GOVERNING CONTRACTUAL.
ARRANGEMENTS BETWEEN A BANKING ENTITY AND ITS AFFILIATED
SECURITIES CUSTODIAN/TRANSFER-AGENT.

7. Describe the allegations related to this regulatory action (your response must fit within the
space provided)
FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH AMF REGULATIONS CONCERNING (1) ENTRY INTO
‘AN AGREEMENT WITH A TRANSFER AGENT AND CUSTODIAN SUBSIDIARY
(°SUB"); (I) ENTRY INTO AGREEMENTS WITH BROKER-DEALERS WHO ACT ON
BEHALF OF THE SAME CLIENTS: IID LACK OF INTERNAL CONTROLS.
CONCERNING CUSTODY ACCOUNT-KEEPING ACTIVITY: (IV) PROHIBITION FOR
‘SUB TO USE OR TRANSFER SECURITIES IN ITS CUSTODY WITHOUT EXPRESS
CONSENT OF HOLDER OR TO ENGAGE IN UNCOVERED SHORT SALES. AND THE
IMPLEMENTATION OF RELATED INTERNAL PROCEDURES, AME AISO ALLEGED
FAILURE TO LICENSE TWO SAVINGS-BANK SUBSIDIARIES TO ACT AS
CUSTODIANS OR ADMINISTRATORS,

8. Current status? © Pending © On Appeal KI Final

(9. If on appeal, regulatory action appealed to (SEC, SRO, Federal or State Court) and Date
Appeal Filed:

if Final or On Appeal, complete all tems below. For Pending Actions, complete Item 13 only
10, How was matter resolved:
Decision

11, Resolution Date (MM/DD/YYYY):
1270872005 KE exact © Explanation
If not exact, provide explanation:

f2. Resotution Dei
[A Were any ofthe following Sanctions Ordered (check al appropiate items)?
/Monetary/Fine Amount:$ 176790
© Revocation/Expulsion/Denil © DisgorgemenvRestation
© censure
© Bar
B. Other Sanctions Ordered:

© Cease and DesistInjunetion

© suspeasion

hutp:/www adviserinfo.sec.gov/I APD/Content/ViewForm/ADV/Sections/iapd_AdVAlIPag... 11/7/2007
View All Pages Page 53 of 59

Sanction detail: if suspended, enjoined or barred, provide duration including start date
and capacities affected (General Securities Principal, Financial Operations Principal,
cc). If requalification by exam/retraining was a condition of the sanction, provide
length of time given to requalify/retrain, type of exam required and whether condition
thas been satisfied. If disposition resulted ina fine, penalty, restitution, disgorgement or
‘monetary compensation, provide total amount, portion levied against you or an advisory
affiliate, date paid and if any portion of penalty was waived:

‘ON DECEMBER 8, 2005, THE AMF ISSUED A WARNING (AVERTISSEMENT)
AND LEVIED A FINE OF EURO 150,000 (WHICII CONVERTS TO $176.7)
USING THE AVERAGE DAILY RATE FOR DECEMBER 8. 2005) AGAINST
|_CAISSE NATIONALE DES CAISSE DEPARGNE.

13, Provide a brief summary of details related to the action status and (or) disposition and include
‘relevant terms, conditions and dates (your tesponse must fit within the space provided.)
‘ON JANUARY 26, 2005, TIIE AMF INITIATED A REGULATORY ACTION AGAINST
CAISSE NATIONALE DES CAISSES DEPARGNE. ON DECEMBER §, 2005. THE AME
ISSUED A WARNING (AVERTISSEMENT) AND LEVIED A FINE OF FURO 150,000
FOR VIOLATIONS OF AMF REGULATIONS CONCERNING ENTRY INTO
AGREEMENTS AMONG CUSTODIANS OR ADMINISTRATORS OF FINANCIAL
INSTRUMENTS AND BROKER-DEALERS, WHO ACT ON BEHALF OF THE SAME.
CLIENTS, THE PROIIIBITION FOR THE CUSTODY ACCOUNT. KEEPER TO USE OR
‘TRANSFER THE SECURITIES IN ITS CUSTODY WITHOUT THE EXPRESS
CONSENT OF THE HOLDER OR ENGAGE IN UNCOVERED SHORT SALES. AND
‘THE IMPLEMENTATION OF INTERNAL PROCEDURES RELATING THERETO. AND
WITH RESPECT TO THE FAILURE BY THE CNCE TO COMPLY WITH FRENCH
LAW CONCERNING THE LICENSING OF TWO SAVINGS-BANK SUBSIDIARIES OF
ENCE TO ACT AS CUSTODIANS OR ADMINISTRATORS OF FINANCIAL

INSTRUMENTS,
(GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS

| This Disclosure Reporting Page (DRP ADV) isan © INITIAL ORE] AMENDED response used
to report details for affirmative responses to tems 11.C., 1D, ILE, 1LF. or 11.G. of Form ADV,

Check item(s) being responded to:
Regulatory Action
T ca F 1.08) T pe 7 11.80)
F 11.c@ Ppa F D6) Pea)
F 11.0) Biive © Ba) Tie
Fane) F 1.00) TB) Fic

Use a separate DRP for each event or proceeding. The same event or proceeding may be reported
for more than one person or entity using one DRP. File with a completed Execution Page.

JOne event may result in more than one affirmative answer to Items 11.C., 11.D., 1LE.,11.F.or

hhtp://www.adviserinfo, sec, gow/tAPD/Conten/ViewFornVADV/Sections/ipd_AdVAlIPag.... 11/7/2007
TEE —————————————————————

View All Pages Page 54 of 59

11.G. Use only one DRP to report details related to the same event. If an event gives rise to actions
by more than one regulator, provide details to each action on a separate DRP.

PARTI

[—<—<—$<—<
[A. The person(s) or entity(ies) for whom this DRP is being filed is (are):

© You (the advisory firm)
© You and one of more of your advisory affiliates
Bove oF more of your advisory afl

If this DRP is being filed for an advisory affiliate, give the full name of the advisory affiliate
‘below (for individuals, Last name, First name, Middle name).

If the advisory affiliate bas a CRD number, provide that number. If not, indicate "non
registered” by checking the appropriate box.

[ADV DRP- ADVISORY AFFILIATE

[CRD Number: ‘This advisory afar is Ka Firm © an individual

Registered: © Yes KEN

Name: CAISSE NATIONAL DES CAISSES DEPARGNE (CNCE)
(For individuals, Last, First, Mile)

F This DRP should be removed from the ADV record because the advisory affiliate(s) is no
longer associated withthe advise.

© This DRP should be removed from the ADY record because: (I) the event or proceeding
‘occurred more than ten years ago or (2) the adviser is registered or applying for registration
with the SEC and the event was resolved in the adviser's or advisory affiliates favo.

If you are registered or registering with a state securities authority, you may remove a DRP
for an event you reported only in response to em 11.D(4), and only if that event occurred
‘more than ten years ago. If you are registered or registering withthe SEC, you may remove @
RP for any event listed in ler 11 that occurred more than ten years ago.

B. IF the advisory affiliate is registered through the IARD system or CRD system, has the
‘advisory affiliate submitted 3 DRP (with Form ADV, BD or U-4) o the LARD or CRD for the
event? If the answer is "Yes," no other information on this DRP must be provided.

xs
Ye

NOTE: The completion ofthis form does not relieve the advisory affiliate of its obligation to
i update its IARD or CRD records.

PART IL
1, Regulatory Action initiated
© sec © other Federal © State © SROK Foreign

hup./Awww adviseringo.see-gov/IAPD/Content/ViewFormvADViSections/iapd_AdvAllPag.... 11/7/2007

 —————————————_—_—

‘View All Pages Page 55 of $9

(Fall name of regulator, foreign financial regulatory authority, federal, state, ot SRO)
FRENCH SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY (COMMISSION BANCAIRE)

2. Principal Sanction:
Civil and Adminisictive Penalties) (Fine(s)

Other Sanctions:

UNDERTAKING

[3. Date Initiated (MM/DD/YYYY):
077297200SEM Exact © Explanation
If not exact, provide explanation:

q DockeyCase Number:

5. Advisory Affliate Employing Firm when activity occurred which led tothe regulatory action
(Gf applicable):

(6. Principal Product Type:
No Product
Other Product Types:

7. Describe the allegations related to this regulatory action (your response must fit within the
space provided)
DEFICIENCIES IN THE PROCESSES BY WIIICH RETAIL AND COMMERCIAL
BANKING RISK EXPOSURES WERE INSUFFICIENTLY REPORTED OR REPOR
IN EITHER A NON-COMPREHENSIVE FORMAT OR IN A WAY IN WHICH DID NOT
FACILITATE THEIR USE FOR RISK CONSOLIDATION PURPOSES AT THE GLOBAL,
GROUP LEVEL,

8. Current status? © Pending © On Appeal KA Final
ing

9. If on appeal, regulatory action appealed to (SEC, SRO, Federal or State Court) nd Date
Appeal Filed:

If Final or On Appeal, complete all items below. For Pending Actions, complete Item 13 only.

10. How was matter resolved:
Decision

11. Resolution Date (MM/DD/YYYY):
0472572006 El exact © Explanation

Itp:/www.adviserinfo sec gov/IAPD/Content/ViewForn/ADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAllPag.... 11/7/2007
————————— TT TTTTT———————L————————,

View All Pages Page 56 0f $9

If not exact, provide explanation:

12, Resolution Detail:
‘A. Were any of the following Sanctions Ordered (check all appropriate items)?
E] sonetary/Fine Amount 1243100

1 Revocation/Expulsion/Denial © DisgorgementRestitution
pul

© Censure © Cease and Desist/injunction

© Bor © Suspension

B. Other Sanctions Ordered:
‘ON APRIL 25, 2006, COMMISSION BANCAIRE IMPOSED A PENALTY OF
1,000,000 EUROS (WHICH CONVERTS TO $1,243,100, USING THE AVERAGE
DAILY EXCHANGE RATE FROM APRIL 25, 3006) AGAINST CNCE
Sanction detail: if suspended, enjoined or bared, provide duration including start date
and capacities affected (General Securities Principal, Financial Operations Principal,
2c) if requalification by examv/eraining was a condition ofthe sation, provide
length of time given to requalify/etrain, type of exam required and whether condition
has been sisted. I disposition resulted ita fine, penalty, estiution, disgorgement or
monetary compensation, provide total amount, portion levied against you or an advisory
‘flac, date paid and if any portion of penalty was waived
‘ON APRIL 25. 2006, COMMISSION BANCAIRE IMPOSED A PENALTY OF
1,000,000 EUROS (WHICH CONVERTS TO $1,243.100, USING THE AVERAGE
DAILY EXCHANGE RATE FROM APRIL 25, 3006) AGAINST CNCE.

13. Provide a brief summary of details related tothe action status and (or) disposition and include
relevant terms, conditions and dates (your response must fit within the space provided.)
(ON APRIL 25, 2006, COMMISSION BANCAIRE PRONOUNCED AGAINST CNCE A
REPRIMAND AND’A PENALTY OF 1,000,000 EUROS (WHICH CONVERTS TO
$1,243,100, USING THE AVERAGE DAILY EXCHANGE RATE FROM APRIL
2006) FOR INSUFFICIENT MONITORING OF RISKS ON A CONSOLIDATED BASIS.
THE COMMISSION BANCAIRE FINDINGS RELATE TO DEFICIENCIES FOUND IN
2003 AND 2004, SUBSEQUENTLY, AN EFFORT TO REMEDY THESE DEFICIENCIES
WITH CORRECTIVE MEASURES HAS COMMENCED AND IS NEARING
COMPLETION,

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS

This Disclosure Reporting Page (DRP ADV) is an © INITIAL OREM AMENDED response used
to report details for affirmative responses to Items U1.C., 11.D., 1.E., 1LF. of 1.G. of Form ADV.

|check item(s) being responded to:

Regulatory Action
F ica TLE) T pe 7 11.6)

hutp://www.adviserinfo.sec.gow/IAPD/Content/ViewFornVADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAllPag... 11/7/2007
EE —————————————————————

View All Pages Page 57 of 59
© 11.0) F pa F ups F 1B)
T 11.08) T 11.p@ © nea Fur
© ica) © 106) © 1B) Buc

Use a separate DRP for each event or proceeding. The same event or proceeding may be reported
for more than one person or entity using one DRP. File with a completed Execution Page.

[One event may result in more than one affirmative answer to Items 11.C., LLD., 1LE., LL. or
11.G. Use only one DRP to report details related to the same event. If an event gives rise to actions
lby more than one regulator, provide details to each action on a separate DRP.

PARTI
‘A. The person(s) or entty(ies) for whom this DRP is being fled is (are)

© You (the advisory fim)
© You and one or more of your advisory affiliates
Bore or more of your advisory afiiates

If this DRP is being filed for an advisory affiliate, give the full name of the advisory affiliate
‘below (for individuals, Last name, First name, Middle name).

Ifthe advisory affiliate has a CRD rwumber, provide that number. If not, indicate “non-
registered” by checking the appropriate box.

[ADV DRP - ADVISORY AFFILIATE. —_—
‘This advisory affiliae is El Firm © an Individual

© Yes No
CAISSE NATIONAL DES CAISSES D'EPARGNE (CNCE)
For individuals, Last, First, Middle)

This DRP should be removed from the ADV record because the advisory afliate(s) is no
longer associated with the adviser.
© This DRP should be removed from the ADV record because: (1) the event or proceeding
‘occurred more than ten years ago or (2) the adviser is registered or applying for registration,
with the SEC and the event was resolved in the advisers or advisory affiliates favor.
If you are registered or registering with a stare securities authority, you may remove a DRP
for an event you reported only in response to Item 11.D(4), and only if that event occurred

re than ten years ago. If you are registered or registering with
DRP for any event listed in Item 11 that occurred more than ten years ago.

;

‘tn: /ww adviseringo,see,gov/1APD/Content/ViewForn/ADV/Sections/ispd_AdVAlIPag.... 11/7/2007
ee ————————

View All Pages Page 58 of 59

advisory affiliate submitted a DRP (with Form ADV, BD or U-4) tothe LARD or CRD for the
event? Ifthe answer is "Yes,” no other information on this DRP must be provides.

© veslvo

NOTE: The completion ofthis form does not relieve the advisory affiliate of its obligation to

update its LARD or CRD records,

PART Il

1. Regulatory Action initiated by:
© sec © other Federal © State © SRAM Forei

(Full name of regulator foreign financial regulatory authority, federal, state, ot SRO)
AUTORITE DES MARCHES FINANCIERS (AMF)

P Principal Sanction:

Other Sanctions:

3. Date Initiated (MM/DD/YYYY):
9/107200MKF Exact © Explanation
If not exact, provide explanation:

|
SSS |

[4. DockevCase Number:

5. Advisory Affiliate Employing Firm when activity occurred which led to the regulatory action
(Gf applicabley

Principal Product Type’
Debt - Corporate
(Other Product Types:

7. Describe the allegations related to this regulatory action (your response must fit within the
space provided):

THE AMF INITIATED AN INQUIRY ON SEPTEMBER 10, 2004 IN RELATION TO THE
ISSUE OF REDEEMABLE SUBORDINATED SECURITIES ("TSRS") BY CNCE AND
‘THE MARKETING OF SUCH TSRS BY TEN CAISSES DIEPARGNE, WHICH ARE
CORPORATIONS WITH THE STATUS OF CREDIT INSTITUTIONS THAT EACH.

HAVE AN OWNERSHIP INTEREST IN CNCE. A GRIEVANCE LETTER SENT TO.

CNCE BY THE AMF ON SEPTEMBER 11. 2006, RELATED TO TWO CATEGORIES OF
BREACHES: (1) ACCURACY OF INFORMATION PROVIDED TO THE PUBLIC BY
CAISSES DIEPARGNE IN CONNECTION WITH THE STRUCTURE, OFFER, LISTIN
AND ISSUE OF THE TSRS AND (2) BREACHES OF CNCI

MONITORING

urna ww nvigeringa see, eov/IAPD/ContentViewForn/ADV/Sections/iapd_AdvAlIPag.... 11/7/2007
————————————

View All Pages Page 59 of 59

pe Current status ? Ed Pending © On Appeal © Final

9. If on appeal, regulatory action appealed to (SEC, SRO, Federal or State Court) and Date
Appeal Filed:

‘nrintn coe enw/tAPPVContent/ViewFomnVADV/Sect

mviapd_AdvAUPag... 11/7/2007
ae UNITED STATES _
Secunms aND EXCHANGE COMMISION
jashington, D.C: 20548
FORM 10-K
(a On)
5° goa err PoRSOAST To SETIN 1. 1H OFTHE SECURES PXCIANGE ACT
or the Has oar ended: Apri 30,2008
on
© TRANgRMON REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 1. 1 OF THE SECURES EXCHANGE ACT
Fer thetanstion perio om to
Caneision Fle Number: 6089
[F3 Har BLock:
il Man st Kara hy, Minus 8
Seer eet,
Cras en me ng
Sec eure pr Seton 20) of AS
comme Sa a ree en ot ne

‘Secs rete pura Scion 129 fe Ac
‘iota
by eck mack whether 2 wll sand na ed i 5 the Scat Ac Yn a

‘Sitar pec 8st rf ache pono Wi open wa ote eck poe, anf an tse oe oe
ROSE Spa iets
‘ews mer aco ote le parent pation 8X toned enn wi eb crane th
SSESTRRSinI Sancta minty axa lm panel yew ora Pa Sat
‘SierSthinsn rns 1s car Ch tage scared teamed Nac
thea y check mak wettest sel cm ae ened He 2b te Becage At) Yee No
eam oe oy mrs Gee Sr eg ey mais to cmd ee he
intro rc oparans Contom Sc, wha pb sin om My 3,208 1.047.

Docent capers by reference
Petter ying tc mgmt serge nc een 7 empl nce

2006 FORM 10x AND ANNUAL REPORT

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Irvodcten ana Forse Lokng Statements

Descpton ofthe Busnes 2

Serece Mak, Vader ad Patents "

Eesoyees 1

‘Alay of Reports and Othe ;
fem 2. Properes
fem 3 Leg Proceedings m
then 4, Subs of Miter toa Vote of Seca Halls °
ham SMart oth Regan Common fay, Malte Loker Mats an hase Pca of Eqaty Secates 17
em 6, _Selacma Fancal Oat 3
hem 7. Managements Dacuson ad Anas of Franca Condten a Rests of Oper w
tem TA. Quostate and Quaizve Doses ABOU Make Rk 7
Item 3. Changes and Dsageement wih Acuntars on Accounting a a
Nem 98. Ger infomation By
hem 10, Over nd Execute Ota of the Roatan 8
fem 11, Eaecse Compersaon 6
then 12, Secnty Oanesnp of Carts Berl Onna and Mangement an Ralited Sethe Mtns %
hen 13, Cea Resonahps ard Rested aneacone 6
hem 14. Papel Acourig Fes an eres %
IRTRODUCTION AND FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
‘Sete prose our pony ator, whlch wl be edi uy
in we hed Snorer by ree” reese oct

ts egor an rm renetrghnt heya, te
cen fr Cas Re ce ees
‘ats and prone rearang be Compr he tn tb

pam

Tea 1. SMES

$a Bc denied cmp ih anes png
Scryer terns rene Seen od er
‘os ad is ew x er peso the er
Sspiom We al fer svstrt seo sre pst
tvugh HAR Bock Pan arr Ine CIN) Or Aetape
‘Stee: ecto fal ange ome mse srs ous
‘Onion Ove Dortner Caporssn (Opa On) and Ha Trek
Nengge Conoraton (HEME) RM Ncaaey ures Sees
Ine (0) easing tl Yes ein rm
pimariy tern med Dts
“To ep ou de eave en Hr betes

Ne sw our cen! fancier i
yay ser os tae of tat mel srr Opeint
‘ough mens of ata eo eer oe an
‘encanto ow cles

THR sk ine eas papel a «creation 15 under de
lows he St of Mn ial conga 0h ern
‘nse proving francis an pros fo the eer
Fate “Halt Bock “he Compan we" “ear std we

{ihe Ths sata pa nyo th om wah eye
a not note af fare performance St oh Sk
‘ais ucts dm. wich we ale toyed
‘Taree cal eter an ri onl any ie es
‘Sere Hots Beene” plan exper ec
sin” “gpronostn” a miles may ei rh
omaha

eerhangraiy lo fro RR Back eo AR ack,
‘cer DEVELOPUENTS In Mach D6, te Oe of Tu
Sepersuo (0S) are he char HR Bok a The
‘a run cetan Sepents of our bust rabet 2 Rew
‘Ferry 22,206 Ge Congas managenet nt the Au
lend coohined Suncalsacmen fot he Hcl guy ced
‘earn a 3, 2K al faa es cdg 2,
Ih condo dng the courte of sepa rhe gant
termi te Company's ate efecto Ico a ra ang
‘trom sreting charge se appro, epi ae
‘hetng me sed ar tela ee ge 8,
‘Sand 20 ane reed fc gore
spit of he Canary’ Commi ck i he frm of ck
‘debtor Aug 2206 acolo rd a
‘helm bner on As 208 At spe she
Inn drums have Boo ied to eet are eet
tiesto sie

as

eld

FRANCA INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

‘te cn low ae i mot 19 on coneited aca tert

DDEsCUPMON oF BUSINESS

‘ax Services
‘GENERAL = De Tx Servos opt icy nog prev
‘ae rtm prepara an read seve ad prot the
‘Sau ae ero Cn Aastra ad he Unod
Kogiom Ravenna tiie fo ear Cor teree promt at
‘en clon Poce of Min (FON) gute ten et
‘parton th thr stray, es fram tine a praanon and
rapa nd action lm (RAL) Seas revo
essed WO of ou enslased reveno fr Be far 28,
‘3. 205, a 9 or 2900
toned BY ax pfeil Wes jee ef eal fen epee
Sty by un of by fences Wo abo ee ow sence aap
Sonal ces nce ie ag reer

‘Soler «mami 9 eiglltx poparton wera Tu
from HA Bice eben deivyl cers to pear ee eer
done ax remy cure Oreos
‘peu doug trary a serena ene

“Gorse tv maryenne sphere of
Ireyaraton thou «tax professional wey ie cee complete
TSS cxpelace tt nds to 8 ts rohenond er prepress
fone sipanse

"Dy tenn poems se dot oust tx pga eons
sede a, Se eu Ss ea

"We ab oder chon aber of opine cent nce
tact ncn hk ely ram he tera Revenue Sece
(Gs) an toi post ey to the ban see ed
She eoring te ee of te ee wih ow
gana sre

Pence OF MIND GUARANTEE. The FOM pur fer 0
‘US hen whey we ( repent oc od yt RS,
nt) ue tect uc cra mt ena ee
‘fetal’ work The POM propa taser he ae nt
‘lca sure we pepe forthe tae Jar coer bf
‘he pean

AL - Ala ae tr to our US. cst despa ak
tnyng contact nth HSC Hong ple SDC) An
‘dite detrei ing ent ay ap for 3 AL nso oo
‘ee: Ar met cea lee ere! he
‘nprtanty spi or to em TSA nse
Stately ware the fcome tx em mona tthe ES
teh stank on wr ap cr le are ig ih
{Hie rece check oe Sos estou he ns
tir cletaceced sree Adduonly guts onc Ag
Chen rcp ce ht EAL rcs, ow pee em
Sore foe's RAL to be reps tbe IS ey eps Ue
‘cant ae ledng tank See seed scan of RAL
‘hen en

"AC ef Aticpain Chock (RACH) ae fre oS. lente
wo me ike the) sete hifi et ont
‘Th aco or th net dept a ca 8) ve
thera pepo fs pa ely 0 of hr rind AAC ot
‘om nd pode roa ronal ars eh ISD

BIPRESS Rc Iida rezenent Sous (Bayes AD,
Invent FUCneoed money acount ated 1
(OS cht wrsruage eceesvngs ek HRGPA St
stn othe sco tht ns ng etd ted
{entar mutasne ag rongttve money mare et ae

"x RETURN PREPARATION COURSES. We er cre ea
free tax rears povige uo wih some of red
‘ts pvemonae
eration saree Teme sed Bases Arne ee
Kip Wisoweo™ notre pace

‘toes 2 sowie sree tx prepeaton ner, a
ogee ny mere aie te per
Satear, soso. some of testo rw,

‘OMLINE TAR TREPATATION- Weft acompecenae ag ft
serosa price in tox ace i cnt fel
rou a eta propa sed cre Bing ugh aut

‘ean whe ia ar at wo, we pre he
‘row Pie Abance (FFA) Thi lane wan reset et
{fe the oder re eines no charge, We eel aos
‘han cts, wie aso pong an prt ote owt
‘Ramm epantion weve oat Sew cht ao rp pce

iStehce roche te 3 a ct (an
Facane seat Slow meus te prego ean
‘Seb coretCaneden rpms cosener are wees
“he crt sei oar al sot ofthe ax rea tbe ard
‘Se CHa det tot i scans withthe a, dsc
‘rn ne th hts propane ef ae
terre’ ascounay Ths progam financed sitet
‘rowing mom of rear dacousn ware Car
{Rowan wal yar 308 wa proumany C00 copa fo
Ebadi and S22 See dacion of Ue Can ae
‘ese exten nr “enol of Dane

tits SEWED We tober wit cur ance, serve
sxprommatey 219 millon hs weve drag mal yar BO,
‘Siro 3 mon 08 a ion e904 Sedan
‘We served 185 main cicais i the US. during fal your 2006,
‘ation del sorte nscale ope po eet
teppei whom we a oy fd cn ag rs
‘i ene tn ed et 8 aged

‘OWED AN FRANEMSED OFFICES A sunny for conan

sre sn aes Sear cen cpr sa ack Sea
‘Te Marat speenent eps i May 307 at Senn Seroe
eet en Bt na nto
(om thie anges pie wth cam is ck
‘een pat rt Nt ft crn
{Gare nd sere avon poy ve pees of es
‘am joprson sod Tse rts o's ne el
"Fm net, rhe aud te feng
‘rin to dow fhe cont att story te
“Scuute e operates a en of cur former mayor acters

TAL PaRTGMATIONS Seely 1, fae Bem 8 PY
greta wih HSBC ant peer to prt Hla
‘ended ty slog ak to AN Bick tn chee The TDC
lpcnont a an avn ny 10a pa ie
301th ene 215 pene we ebtaie! tena opr
‘in tmncnaton tenn Ha inane row copay ord
tnd rps ches ces nm nest Rue ane
Song mabe froce fice, The cir pee cin
‘rouph ane 20 Dag leat 386, meses ne agement
‘won HSQC ie wheh we cbtine the ‘np to pce PH
arcpaton tea Als ened ea a oes Re
med a mpang toe om HED dus the Corea te
‘Scoecion the agremen, hek Pa Coed
‘dened a pe 38 The sew nen be not

bd]
‘om uy 206 oh Jae 201. Ow puch the arogton
Inet hanced thong seer borrowings od we ew lo
‘pcpnon eed a nie parton malig
Ihe tocpa ye borower tote enng ba Oar RAL pation
‘arene a U7 sll S188 abo nd S36 € ml aa
tat tun gt pt rm larry hou pe tech ya

aS acs ee ta ns
‘eno seen ral pee hn tag tt
See de ya Hara, mes py
‘tinge prprnte or Oe wrong tx eds, he
{ir hms aed by scsi coors so repent
tar rar reweats or dng sprains om

ate cent ae yer, he CRA ex he Cada a ta
todty 1 ne Ces sre no Catan per Yar
‘Besancon preity bth con ed an
{techn act whch wee ace cet eH, The
veer oUce easel be ecg aa et 207,
ins Caan wan at ara Ca
‘tices whch were accepted by the cla om May and 2,206. The
‘meg mit Ga ete opt i yw 3,
hist competane, Tete are ‘bean minor oft em
Preorder arg ath epaon
Serre Bayt tun preuroon fies el Pay fe
‘rong dette ig ant HAL seve tothe ee. Comea
{xo pear a tronic sar hah csv mk
Woon ce rc ng gu om he
‘hem tre ne ed our sofware weer he urge company
fronting rc ts rm ppaaon sei crn Sing eee
‘unineases in Canada and Amstraba

cums, lat nem he daa per a perpen
feprton mat ae wt ayaa opts cane

rh sew sf aateponsr one ing progr Picea
raring compton fr ax euro serves eres ae
COVERT REGULATION - Peary tos oan he reson
he ten ek Feed legac oar income tm
eye to svn et fr hee ae
‘acm ebm oat ax ee pepe! hoa ma
‘rik the repre fincas ru Proper my ered
‘om fart nang os mr tru prt iy oy
{is inal Rms Coles pobre aoe
Ineame tax ree pa of tn nee i |
‘Saran eaciey et t Fede Te’ Commas eso
‘oe rr ie oor x npr to et aoe
‘Seamer piv. wd prowsr coma ema
‘opr to “open ef having peso blomaton Gln
groped aoc sti eit oe ioe
‘tte he leon eng commer is en
srl io peso i can ve
Stet bens We cmt twee, reat what te fas
‘heenatnet onesies or opin of rw msm
"Sse govern rep the deta fing Of ome
nr rey een ni nen nd
‘aoply wah a pabealow and i a hn Spee |
‘th teers sande forsee lem. ad be sae
mie mong The TRS, ees for doe mf
IMcone nea preparing dee fepare? Pees
‘tspnon th trom: lng propa Se a ened
‘lect dang propane oe suit come tt hear hte a0
rose ne ring tiie eth ater ee
feocraae ng ser
Feder aes aod rpstons alo epie an etre Ses
lnvavemenin Ra tran les te Cty ep i AL
Inu nt se for ore waa esa ce
{arretind Pedr ewe pe rrtong on ees elec er
‘ny eps income mi Ra le ao sme males Sd
Inston have raced tew' made pao fo BAL
laces she erang RAT may ae

tat ae tts eating tg Ses an oer reqarenen,
the ace fb han posing ei rcs wee
vr serve oman ts Cae Ay Se
{we'besore hr pcedue er nhc we fein Rl ae
‘Stns reputed by se Lan Ac Sates Te ee mo
‘et can econ at hee tates apt the AL acess
‘i tae we wil et Besse Ieee tr th Lan Actos
‘Sites ire coy vam abso requ 8 ly
roma that Lae Ari Sate se spd

ists ae ating ng ot ts ing
ecto te pds lone cpt tha Pn pe
(e's tonct ef manne ae tenet mae mae
eure busin tr tn ote ee ise ren
Steer these no rane brane che POM para
weve he pet oh Spee aye the
fe, wil sci ae potal rence pro so
{eee to yar arc an st enn

Many of ot name ax cours ae ed dens islet.
‘eo itt ak pepuraon a eer ohh led

‘ini a ew alo png
neon creat rrr ace podcast

Morreace services
CeiehAL Our Meru Serve vet eres mtg an
‘Severs nein mortgage aoe sels can ete
Kav a riders in SU Revs pty coe of
(pis fem ner un routines of morangr ect, screen ot
‘ea meen sot song foe sme. Spent. rv
‘Spo bos ana 136 or

mortgages ae Use tha Ma ot be offered Cpr goverment
‘Tense om agree a ele boomers wth Bed
‘Some docmentaon gh ls f canner St oP eat
[rales borremer bate robin ey sso
{ee tolae pal mth pope Ut wb ed wc to
Frome mages are tho ta may te he th over
‘onscreen genet, We col tne ven or Con

Seco or sprinted, bwrnr, na he fc.
‘phone pera 0 ese mater
‘ecme tat rear pon ses spring nthe US st he
‘aw “HAH Hae opened by acne Gta pects fhe
rrchiottarcerlasshe have bene nae: a eae
‘th Fete Te Commas by vn sen Tae eno
ese a oss rol Yo decors to be mae
Up the tender were faci areata BoM
platen ee mcely eed oe wen We cmt eck.
[ever the eo faa ar punt at ay
‘ced ad in fare

"fen et eer mpl al pwr a el
repiery Orpen ates nore, nea pa
(Se hese comtrior oewhceepen(oectrey, Foot
{eset copy wh se orig Lwe We amet ree What
‘it een ear yar i re
‘Tearing the apical of Foren Laws ay hae our segments
‘apart missy, our coerhad Sarl weer

“Sanne and rations reling to icome tex tm repre
ssetome ng ching other aoa eng th oe a
Ines oath courts uc we ape In aon
‘remit vert

+ Opin One® oleate oxgion chanel works ith
Impenden brokrs acago the US to fund nnpine
rene bars tht mr rach eer, Whale
Srignatomrepcsom the may af Opson One a
iran rene

+ HES in ead mae ae nyt

+ Gi ad art ca es ai ik
Show thos eer seme me

+ Opa Ons cats cel pecans ihe parhase
petra rine mero at poe

‘pl Gre agate vs Calon a ependen in

6 sates by seing 0110 mora ke eas oad

ewer of 36 whee an ron ann an i etal

taro fe

Mc, » wity-ornd saatry ef Oton One e+ tt
‘uct bade fr pane, oie and gremunet lar an
Sesser for Fue Mae an Prive Mae snd UD aha
{Songun tndorante FHA aa VA mtg ane

Ie canon yea we temaid spycam L0 employees
se ed sa orb ti hh enti Ta,
‘mercer cn to Se ethene an
‘econ ren hin a ies

WHOLESALE. Wholesale loan onpnatons inva an
Ban sppbeston whch ince ewig norton Testing
‘het set Hebe, sccm rat hry, employ
Sa persnal information We opie see repr em each
‘Stnusng aa appcat's rst sory, we We cea tara sk
‘Score, stray oem ura FICO aor, wich i = sated
‘nist tel fre cau pevtomanoe develeped ty Pur,
irae & Campa td roid ty the hee ana cre th
‘power uit indeace appear fear to
Rhee ies oes cer ut pote
‘edt the bomowers Gracia mvs No coe er ecreatly
‘inten more han 0 oferta nopeine proc,
‘Spm ecg oa tpn rom a ro ce epe wad
sngtacl rar, rae of wr anh cs potest erie
ite hear derma delves owner ba be

Sse ls ad easton, The fuses ae ea ed 0
ish ve frei foe te ona
Seppe a cole t Oe wongie Tom and ane he
‘andiwerdien of the ted borrower: Pe unr ces
ihe semen of eerste of boners awe
lcs eo nn isd Fe rn
‘Srtoward wale m te cna maine

sat foros mere oe oe ee,
cpa Pan Sm rept Dra a rr 08
tryna 208 IRI swe ae tng a
‘Seat compar 02 208.

“ie pans oppor pace ou al ean ar

SHE AND SECUATIEAION OF LONG Sint st son game
niger ae so aly outing spect pose cals
{Groth Bee dec feta ae and crn pos
{em 7 ser Oe an Set Ping eget A gs 3
‘Sek Bai nn comes pears ay 308 Te ars

‘Santino ou eal prine mace ne ar sto
Coane Hone Lim Ine (Coat) The yoy
Fete fae Yo Come ae vedere rab
‘oresecuon and wamaues shih cong” woh Comet
‘Sinan dries Tar pene aor ose bred
‘reso te to pce, eens nen, oe oun ot
‘environ m operate We do nt ean svn in rd 0
‘me maga aa HRM no pee moa eld
{© Option Ome Se cso a oa ne mare lee 7
tna apa Rees opal Wy Soper:

Sei" wenger ng etig
‘oi and rae aig ew for pat ete
‘vin ce mony orth ie the more loa, We ony
rice 4's iow tang 1 al, cnpare! a 0.29 are
‘Seg 940 tn Ag 99 oS Tn old
eS Mans ge 2

“he fuwing abe nostro meng amb yoga and
‘acai mortgage mei (MS) of Aged 28
{athe rae we erm och ps of ave dung fa Your 08

sme sane oes

‘ee npr an ars soci. rer eta he
sige to mete ae wich on Hebe erred
‘eur bance rt hinge on meting as ofS
In atin o serge we orig, we ao rice more
tea orgnated by et ery, rg be one eo
ecg Mie cde corns wth oo ae
‘achne lomnerng porte

"GEOGRAPHIC DISMGUTION.— The folowing ble deta the
prt orn gre bn ein ane a 0 ou ngs
acct eg Ste yon 08

tthe rose range ban mare ae ay ctneaive The
otto een te en oh
intr resent oon marke, mortage bs comp
owner tan, sre amore, crest sn al
nucleons here iso mos compares compre
‘npr cmap ae rane tag eo one ert
‘i Sone I. BC Loti aed Opson One oe
‘ane aven egy, be mah Save f Mar 306,
nd them the sec, bed ren olan a
Nach’ 300 ot nonpetn edsy,

SEASONALITY OF BUSDESS = Rental merge vos st
niet fo ipant somal Dats, The merges Sse
‘Seka, wert eel acted. by hana renner

‘nn ur meal anc ew ced change
gat sor ser ar sae to rea as sd eps,
sane
Te eda Thinning A. a mended and Reon 2
romana ree
1 Te Bgl rat Oporunty ct amended, nd Repos B
rod renter,
1 The ar Gre Hoong et, amede,
1 he Pur ai Creo Prices Ae
{Ea fepntesX jromulpsed berets
1 The lane Onoomap qty Pract et QHOEDN
DIR Siler ed Slo Ct ee et fi, ted
{Te Hone Merge Danie Act MDA) od Ropaon ©
ded eee
Toto Ping At,
‘ie aephon Comme Proteton
‘he Grantee ey Ata patos aed ede
‘Re Purund Aovunue Gat henson ht
1 fon A sn
5 Gonal tn tr sn repair
Unie emer epaon tl case wap cera
fel pope maybe ose ons let oa ee To the Pope
‘Teh muy ae servi et
‘Aral ate awe generaly ep es aes at ter
ares pertatne npn Thee Sera ie etn
‘es oe wn fa ee as Se
‘therm pe a gee pp og asd
‘Senay, na ph erste Pacis rim
Sey ite eign rc aan ome
pct mind aon enc al rei poe
‘mosae socaed “peony vig” pies Trasy ng
Sites eh ORDA rps "hhc an” ch fie
pars by cach ste come or nso mat ano ot
‘rice, bt erly ince tng one eh rst es
‘ieeing © U) special tarp ot be Tremay nde for
Soe att Seated porte at al
sera ncaa tna pce oe ore os led fo
Shite cmuin peaceea commie wih my tpg ee
‘Su id he tte f= grat bone ok ae
Itt mich net he enon tc an ander 2 lw

al

Cera ste any ret or poi pregame penaes
‘moe Ions, so we rio the feral Arte Mato
ty the OTS to peemgt state mations oe prepeet pnabes Ia
pteter 2 OT lee wet dc cee
‘Sey ft peepee hy sae we ae
‘Symp pera The enantio peeyse
{Bee manceoge pri arto png payor Pky

uns services
empl cous tx und bass rg eres We he
ent expand heron we osu ns ange
‘a ac ren onto Sper erm cone 88
Ts topes prmaly of RM Mela, ne. whch
eter w 0 ater ao few nrcr eo el 3
ers wr al prot he wing bene
STE icon teemcne Reuter nomic rere
‘han hie cnt soup the bs pat fr ther nad
{Se epring sd eoreaing
1 TSM Bes neon romeo flog fn scaling
ean vain, acquis and anne for pee
1 ES clay oloyer Series Ie 2 promo pyre
1 HSM eiaiey Fanci Proce Otcourea Ine peor
of secant ryorang. plan bil payee vest
«Fo Gea i pes markt commeation an ie
ogame mang
tye ar ower doce anise prose
ron ineto beh far argued bares dl contr
arse re cntees waar and tory wean be
{he eitandag cunmon sick a Aenean Exess Tx ant Bases
Sree. ha ee redo FSM Menge
Teusiowsiar wit AEST MMs” By rea we ca
rove no and tet ere MAP, and ter ps: Scoting

ae ret the ato eben of prpeyment pie
‘St we ma nose anal ever ste Tu per w=
‘cmp denstge ii na eta bat Se
‘Semoridel rempon f ich te eto Sch nt
‘ache epymen price wiht rep eae eters
‘Sse arom may le sto sr hans wth eet a
‘Soc we ae mle

scp gm ft een pe me
spctiion homes eco
Sersbceatnne een
Eeireeestetea tenets
Sooo aoe ee
fee ee
eee
pa ee |
ES Sco
eae os
Emcee tha
Seem

ace See ec cise
‘Sime met snpmaate Rboeoe
Se
Pee
Sina iviacs nection
sorcerer erate
Sa eee ee
errs thier ims sire

sown Accoung fe a sn abject © atte a eer
{Splat erng comes tom’ aca Pans
‘Saou ips ares prop ae en ae eng
‘itr epee and scooting orp og utero ot
Siecle ne et eel pons don ele
‘pastry prope do nt an wl hat hae a meal weet
“Kodi ekprccoce rte of te. Secuiin and Tach
Commisson (SEC) and te eb Company Accounting Ova
fred (RAOM py to he Aes Pome sie rong So
‘bing wa salar idence an the SEC veer tse
‘Aes Puma sng ely ol eaes tat the SBC epee
‘ie or he tee ma py to RSM Mey a tha we be
Indep fang SEC sue ce ofthe Att Pa Toe SEC
SSe‘san’a ‘chat of Ate nn mt cal leet
[och unos nay tenth aa Pee at
ir pumeaen py saber separa a

evesrinenrsemvces
Sater seracen aot testi Panne egy HA oat
"nn the U8 Smee oor caemom ele rato
‘san arate ay ars fo ese pn,
SSgnet evens coed 0 of our Sxosaed vem for
fe yar and So ur ona ever or Bar yer
"HRA repre bok ale wah te SEC ania member of
‘Sentient Protecbon Caporsion (SIP), the
‘tl wt of ecetes Dre ne WARD) HRA ao
‘fe ticai of erent whe wt co tat tbat
to leeage an aiendy eased stout ne ps Bee
TuancIAC SERVICES OFFERINGS oer al rng ania
etisalat
enbie brokerage accounts lh cash maragenen sue,
Deel mavogd accused's ieee ee
urn rat pots
‘x rrvmydnened Ta Serie” fro tux cette
yoru pe a apres BA Gogh HRA ut

We ante Ate Frm ae sm dnp ahd spent
bck roceres and cx deine fo rau the Ate Fm
Indes tv ees se it Ih conla Wh
ene Stepan and prof regain Tse
Inds proces cats are Sedo Pom ne
Sen face arenaece ree ce am et
a (amg car cen esi ad er mere re
roan at ii eee
{ee mmecrng cures omer, emma wt SOC ne
‘Sete pag te SECs ttn ant apo of at
Independce esta pases equine ES pecs 0
‘comply mth or Ate Pe dps tin pe
(aclodeg the Ate Ri Inependeoe cmglance sta
ered) He bee Dest ples poset sa tno
‘Sturn aktongh ore can eno turcen hey wal Tote
Cexplane wn aparaie independence rsa een
‘ecemlance coat comm the Ae Frm te Se any
Porm suis or ws sat repaint he SE

tron pepardon proces Ciels ett peony
apr tks rng tx meson 390 appoint 1008
Spats dae eed emcee nce ,
mac ne 8 onan an U8 Set

"CsrOMER ACTWATY "Cmte dr rl ee 55 tld
groin 10 waion, compared to approxima 08 ion
‘es 118.1 sa ear 206, compared 12158 m2 an 16
compared to OL ae 206 and. 4,796 200. Aes under
‘tenet ttle $13 bon $278 batons ST on at
‘eS, 305 sd 204 rope

MANGAL ADVISORS Rey ra NE come ang od
reciungprosecvetoncal sco of they eas it
Sey tl tom yan a ng
seo recive. Thee mln wer tt by ean o
and 2M woo ep Or orl enon a fe Bal
Yours mas pprxmauy TOR emenn atwh e Yoe
The meen afr ca Perec ats as ren

ancien wach poy eee a oe
schon tthe poot fm aprontely 24 3 maha hey
PASINENG.WTH TAX PROFESSIONALS — The TAR. Blok
Pretened. Parner Progam tts rae refer aord
artneships between ta proesonal sod Sac adres. The
{Ei roa et remand tn mic alos on
‘Sng que etree ancl ave parr Te TP
roam ip lax prfewnai tain uring ere. weanng
‘om wi furl advo aad prondung acumen tobe LTP
“tt Ape MS, ow Pree Parte Popa ha 8 ate
set ren of whch were Rede a 2 ave a
‘eu of ts Itai, we aed wore tan 17000 ew caster
‘Re cape to cota to nena ie aber ofa artes ie
cent on ot wie a tvs irom One ters hv the
Stan mt eaten, ew tesa of tha coms.
‘oleae 50 nae, be Dees of Columbia ad Pr Ric
par opr 257 oes 208 aed 8 2D. The
‘ur toxqararing pom, which real sss le

et oer he como ne ences tA 8
‘Sows ta eer inst! i a ttt moron os
esd ge of cones cling) set oer nel et
‘ctotng hse broerage fr, noe an ote oserog:
Se, i ange, re or
Sire fey tar iecme sre tornado amen
ie tre ben yw erate Ee Soe
enc te ec ste oie
cuties ne US, mcg pee th rman ey
cn Rovner 108 anh memento fhe USA Pato et
‘Age 39 Tew tater seo enone oe ern
‘otcna ca merger been comer bad a nt es
‘ony unger poet cane fc res ay
Tec stra Er uaa rc pee
compete gant TRIPS wh apc 6 mle are
See ism rat fens sn ie pee ae

‘Sealy Some ter enng on aig a at
‘Comecon he nine ting bans fs Became sity
ettanipa gaits of sce, bth foe tle, Pes
‘enahay aul storey Sea ae cba son
SEASOMALTY OF BUSMESS "The meson Serves snes
‘soso werent conan ea ot
‘enmece sl dance an hangs he cone of te soaten
artes wichon crsmat twel Btn ne ten
TowERNAMENT REGWLATION Th sues ny et
‘sinew pte slg eptro f n fr  porm,
owing of cotomes finds td ecw, wv pri, at

itn an mgt and bese of empl The ratoan
rere mtr dyspareunia
Sener ary pom ee ogee ave
tira enrcenrt pots to Cee fi, fo cement
SiS oe oan mcmo

“Pe SEC the ee teey epee fer he iia of
tae dea ton bother SEC tas pte fc of he
‘eof er ees nan rena oc
is teen senpured ar HRIFAS pinary pe Tow ie
Tony rpeatis, stot ley miler 10SEC npr
‘Sremny Oc nda and cut pono ean of TRIAS

SERVICE MARKS, TRADEMARKS AND PATENTS —
‘Mev made pr stig or mrviees  prodots ade
Serve na sed ase a ohaning pet oe BY
‘Strate mene Ou sree mai nee a pte
(wots we tact" suse ae sorece Sar) Sod

smmiovers -
Mere spgoatatty 1600 regu ume employes. The hist
eeprom dn

AVAKAMLITY OF REPORTS ANO OTHER AFORMATION
ara et nF I ety te Fem 160
Sit aed oe SEC ara eo ch, ou ot
[ipere we seentely fd wat er eae Oe SOE
“Coun the tioning cre gem newness
con tar webu (I) The Ane and Heed Arico
Inecspraban of HAR Bind Ine) The Anwende’ and Restated

‘Shien by sate sen sna aes
These cot bate

“o'regnred lerdal, DEA w abject the Net Capa
tle ie 1c) mgd tye SEC ad gd rh
‘ins cap egarems or mee esl res
‘Salat Lo meee Un nancal nnd and bay of «bbe
25 tears stat men ron erst eg
‘ean of net cap ome em Taner “Capital Rese
“See dono ak Pate fr nn rma

enema te agp 0 be of test ampere 10 nt
‘rox putty our tes secon pong see Se
Prune HA ck ran

even ered tet eater

Gormance Galdsnes, (0) the TRE Blok, ee Cote of Basse
cs ar Conde (he HAR Heke At Coat Char,
(Oe lai Bick, ae Gore td Nomina Comme
‘Sh an) the Heke Compton Comte Care
{Tyo woe kes pd copy ma ee cpu foveance

mnt plese on your mp ot Ora he Seta,

Intraton ote ot webs dos ot ote past ek

kn sie nm Reece of a
{ou earn are sso ane met ns od
‘edad ine Ser ot 7 oer “Oda Set Pounce
‘oye Yt HA pps cl wing
LUTCATION- We re olen ama th sora cour of oat
sost rated te HAL out Pe of ind urs Pog
Sica fang of x mtu, Ears As, oss cured
‘Sitar i ese un ins begets od
‘tee mate re soames rsd aso sad ma
‘stmustal tape sat colt aber alee arto
eras Segne pe panna ss re fron oat oe
‘Ebel afc the mart pce o ou See See em 3 "Le

ANACY OF CUENT FORMATION. We mage Mh sre
ent craton al ef peri Sane whch eae
Sow bien wit the stung snd popr ane tat
‘lormaton rid rn ely cine a nem Pay
‘hich cold stealer ean adel oprations
‘es gemmng Secon at othe Sutanetany et (SOX 48)
SOK 4 eqs et new he fete ftir cote
Sve tana Tpting sty sah at ot ne
Stereofan ea om ne denn tre
‘Scewietng the eiew and evasion, the inglenetsion of
‘roan aw cit nae am ged
‘tan "Adbal, managements tssent of our tad
‘oe ial pve may ey tence Ti et 0
‘Siete i nr rma ets ve anc eparg ef Oe
‘inte tut may ae ence fr vers SOOM we, of Ow
‘snes wesineme nor cal cone ovr Sl Peri
Sectn an he pe ofr commo tock ay eine
leant fied prem mem tet or Theat
‘Sown sany fons ining among he, ery es
Sictngtons,ipeopste eve of or macau by ot
pense acted ff ees for wand ees
SX Sov peor w sconce waht aca grr
‘hee eves ea rel in net oes eer Soe
{So vey on tural sede formato at ching ee
‘Sr apo we expand i go
nce for mao dpe ten out 2 ct
sep ly Yo ct eb ran

‘ew imaton na neon Sens

ax sernces
COMPETTIVE POSITION Ince competion fr tx prepaon
‘Sher aft our cre mato share hss Bo
“Tes Services "

REFUND RATICPATION LOANS Change gown reption
ele RAs cnet ot My iA Os
‘Sal hea ate oy oe the ES at a
‘Sr ee exper Cangm ny af hme, a mela poms
tpemtzas Se “daeumon of RAL’ bape ix
“eel Process

COMPETITIVE POSTION, — The mapty of car mor lan
Sezar sed does 's ort of bodes hae
IRowr cig arr oar ts cdl ene ©
oer er ow” pag scram tome ned
Son snd men rt tra cis
‘Sct ave afl sr a 0 a meng hae
HARLEY ES Our ary spr Sery of orgtng
sot seg morgue Toms hate mary pers of cre ae Pk
meeting mn et na
reat tern ht eo he Sts SE
{me memes coll tc ou rene fetter eT
oy cat Aig Ras fo tn
TEeISATION AND REGULATION ~ Seer senate te
come bv ped rrp Oananes seo
Scone reauoy ning and sensang pace Ta fear
crepe in psa ow ren ine le eng
tear HORPA teboan forte 2 "hgseoe™ an and
‘Siang untested ener borower he
‘ene sith kane Wunnoaie ws and eto ar sed
‘Sour beers ea ot wet op a eed
‘Narco aod ca ean oo yt ae oor Bh

amt Ang et wy le
Ta Sn Pl Rewer Bord ond hago Reto ©
rein dr BN ho at ge on ate
‘atta ere eed on tray lee compare mans
15 Tenure peng an ert tr pore led
Sine ante ayn of ut os me eset othe
‘Spent reatng regrets‘ etgniedeporing en et
[Some rat tae ra ocean vel a the est
‘gaan a he nfmton ond mere by hd tes
‘Sot niet ato en a penton
Pectmon ts cot epost ge
‘Se os gy that nr eit ana ines coer
‘Stein tes i ore eons
terse The pay reseed oa anal acs a enon
‘net Tat ar seed by tegen Wh a
ire hy resell ay aera ee a te
‘Shoe wl ke sem ger dese eat at
Eeeconuce Ado, «pica porn of tw mtn are
Tisctucene ore node tal cas murat ane er
‘curse of atr sattolcoeted by sa conte?
‘ura esc an a eri, humo wi. cul
‘Seas te ae morte properties aon Ay stand
Th thas to mignon el a the pce we cee on ot
ie te a omar Sringeri
‘eno nd le of patos
uses sennces
‘ado hh ex Pre ree to Comply wah epee
‘edna feng the pacer of pc econ der

inten sel regu blo, ecensi wi
‘he Ate Fr sy ns or RSM cae hh ites
Fea ite fat Pata wee ence pay tye
"sues eng or th aehip rh waar ee
‘eG. ou rad repatlon and our ay to rele the mad
‘wow tu econ uch a he yo td eal
‘paul protease ca be np

TRTESRATON OF AMERICAN EXPRESS. TAK AND. RUSOISS|
SERVcES Tee eg of Aen Expr a sed a
iScpaiy hone pared ha coe Sede coe
‘Space, whch could Stes afc or cl conden hod

IeesTiMen sens
{Some ner ese ry by fer ade eae ed
éeparyergemaens ted ts tnd an och bee
Faced on comlince ter if we Go nt cng ih Oe
Frinton te eh hepa arene tegen pate
ioe seem at ott ot opraton eo say
unten qed are Sie peo set
ERATION HET THE HAR BLOCK BRAND = W
tral at athe mtorr saad stony
Inegason of emmret Sere ate the Hah Dhak band and
‘epenne oor caret cert ot me ae et
‘SSteny"ctgu cy ony pst ty
‘pow ow chew tae

SECRUMTING.-ANO RETENTION OF FINANCIAL
free cnt 8 een ty) aly he
‘cd icant The many en ee ae
‘et proactv srr ay ser et cur lo eprom:

cCumine ortaative LOSS» Conanang ose ames 2
cnr tree ern eget ay ep eon gl
‘St neg somes 908 lene Cou hee aa
Sty opr geet a mays
Sc ee ra fees

{TEA 1B, UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

Iirvorn OrConorste beaters, which saad Kama Ca,
Mire have luda oe ma fer comer, Tak
nw Ci, Mason

uncer rasa twonfow De US Ow Conan ete ee
‘snd send ergy Aor Ow Canta a ere
‘Seopa und fue tv Cand,

‘Opn Ox eset fn ae eae ted fis ve,
cathe Oplan One so escrito sd
Servcing tes and tach oie operations hoop Ge US
HRDNC eadqartered ned ters Cason EMC
‘Ss ae fr for etme ogo cers an tach ee
‘ras rout Be US

‘The eiomaion elo shoud be read in cormcion wth de
interatomic em Rote 17 sour come

TAC fGaTtOW— We ave een named ae a elena mero
lawn un he county rein a la pane ak
‘ropa cole, “EAL, Ca) The BA, Cases have wee 2
rr o i Bcon sae by plith Thne ien de
[Mceton at son ee ngs cones Wie TAL pets
sr saga saa nd eyo RAL et a re
ES th nee hr ay he once rch wire.
ts a cet sie onan each of tract
okra Haceteriveced rd Crap Orntanor At laters

Treat Soeary iy to our Frees tment he
Event

“Tororo clamed th RAL Cate ae en very susan
EALcanes sme onc were demon or mete os
ot raorary Ndgurk.sed eoetwere Senaeed vokuary 7
‘has aer dena chs cerucroe Otter cass have bet
£OSealoin fal year 900 eee RAL Senet tad ober

ey

“Te exci aces of HRDPA a ocd eed ices
aro Scie, Bench oie ae eae owes US

absence ere lost en fen onion,
Divert ora oases oe space hough US

"tr tepu contraclon om corp sigs ng acl
par toh wich wallow tn cots emt or as
‘Geen perme into one ay. Te ew ang i be ed
covey Sa ane ec ed
sate 9 menos

$02 mio (he "206 Stems) Te 208 Sees ae

“On Deenber 21, 206, we entered ito memes arenes
rpadig RAL Case ee Dadra D, Comminn oF
THER tl ne to Muse w Ha Pr, fn; Gm
‘Hah Bk Ineo oan ter Ht Bor, ne (Oe Camis
‘Azam, we wl cout sl ep 1 $625 elon es fot
(Silay nen hl caecum onde ere mts
‘nal ease of 87 mon mised Yo ie same I Sc
‘at Bo hay rove fr i tee ao

"Age awe etre ae eee. abet 0
(ate HoussoldYureatonl fer Hk Bocas Che
“Came Seem ae) Pre oe Cars Ste
Ageumat, we Wl crate» to of 8 monica oe
om ig pment he Stim cy eg
i nd noticed iran cos Me eed 8 tee

ie bee we hve meres Sle eae RAL Cres
Toe ano econ fh perng HAL Cassa ot
‘Se sgpepte. Lemon ere canbe amacrine

‘ur bt ele af rae sree ote RAL Ca. Te
‘Sowing sad ematon epg he penn RAL Cam a
{betsy gener acs ch to pte che one

Twe A Coreg al ¥, lowell Iteration
HAR ook, eta leet Ea Dei
atonal an He Hck ne, Hk Franc Coreron et)
(Sie'No 66 € 21% Unted Sister Dia Cot fori Rate
‘tio Mai ater Deo, om A, 8. ae
fe saya tal we Tose ar pa the Care
Senet Apremet.
tse GEC1¥ i the Ce Com of Kanai Cty Wet Vi,
‘Senin Seema rem t's ran do ne 08, a
‘Serntement il become fina ape he eprton of he ed ae
‘Sie to oped te cout sore

“eye Cen at HAR Bark Tc, ck Ponca Corporation
Stn ett 1 Le nd Gv cel ea
Gu efi Conny, sar ed oe sd poe
Iie» Ma ie Ca No C¥200.03 le te Cou ot
CGmmen Pes, Sonn Coury. Osseo ee 12
Slennt Apeonet

Se aol A Rc tt om I ch
Gr trp Pint Cn arn 2,
‘ple court Subsequent Cont decree
‘Sato Weare ei reie fhe apple Sous sc he
‘Renter Supreme Cos

“The Ft of Clforna © HAR Back, In, HAR Bok Scr,
ery Bok Begin, nes HAR Bs Pi Seve Bek
Fiance Copan HR Ral, In Dos gh
(Ge'Ke ¢' BssSn the Ute Suen Duet Cor or he
enor Dt of aor ote on Feb 15,06 (ae
‘Sing'cder Ginga re moluag or rope stern
‘Sinker Ale tr omen th peo et ae
vt eee tl pales ron). ae
‘Saremonedo felon Sah 7, 8a ol
foe's seeing evan the ce Se our

PEACE OF WIND TIGATION. Lied Mera tak = AR Mock
apr Ie a, Co Aco SLO he Ce Coat
ono Cay, in mio oe elo Samar 1,
Sa wae pa lm cera on Sg 7,58 Pat

bn]

CFO an ier wich hpi mt ran
{Stare years er Th ot alee te sale POM
fear cones) sot fs ymin soe ot =
econ) an tiartde prc, sto sd “enn
(Gey charting comers fo he pine ee ou they il et
qs wat a a) arach f dcay y s a 208
(3 crt cred th tf ches coreg fl ese |
{he Janay fo ln) wee charged rps ee
{ee POM by 8 Boc” ors Stent Hat Bek dit member
(Ganda crtln cn ste ee one rar oper fr
Osby "Ha Bio” or denne HA Bc cw meme pt
Posed to the ty ia ce ded HR Bc Ce
‘rome’ Pomo. sho rend the POM ma te
Tin Block Fremuan te and pers woes Abe
‘cide om hep dn he cut ln cif ere
‘Shox are others fed or med wth HR Beck Ta
Sogn ede dency on ee lam erica
SSeS y nym pcg ol ae
‘ages be RM guste Ts ue beng tne bere he
‘ve oes tt pe oer he Tera RAL Stier ie the
‘nt pnt aameye a re ued tbe Masa gs
SS cca rss No nb oe
nen ded he pou. Te a aed the POS
‘cone se mata however nd et ane mo sane
‘ke outcme of m evng acs ony on ana
Lewis the ean be no sswances rman he angst these
‘oncom tr ates rslaton *
‘nome Gener la twp he Sureme Cont ote Sate of
New tea Comyf Rew Yon elie Th Pol of Se Dor
aR ‘Beck tee oad HAR Blok Prancal favo ne Toe
‘Spit kes fanddet bomen pares, rane tt sd
ftom crn i a al ef ory dy mth
{eve Bares RX protect Te compat sea equnbl eet
‘egprarmen ot preti, danages wed atone Fics and
frowie damage & inber i e e nee ery nd
gant we cincemieg Oe mater "We send dtd thse cnt
‘ery bu reer nsances a te tcome

seamed catia eter
SCoAI Tae ey tates aps ee ws at
on Ste ls ft ae
eh oie yy aay em
‘ava i et Cala se
ew em pty oe sent
elena poet pest et
raiatemest one te tet
LSS ee am a cay
‘arama sin 20) ne geo
‘acne me ws nana see
time te Bs a
IST ac a ee eve
‘Sh tee it i eae
FE en inci tea
[ore a tek om Utd Se ie ot re
‘Tr tieoay Cane eo ook
SST May Sse nae eon eae
Sica Cheha fama oe
rsa be Saree
sche tng Nr wees ate ed
‘Sg aes yo
Sota a tae arena tee
SSS Shit coat
Ss Sitemeter ere
era ates
he uc a pee Wo
We st {em ene i
o'ioccttna rc Ss 3 Ry
Seton" See
Mar aes TB

Marc 24, 206. " "
a rar
eater iene
Mares see ee oe sme
Cakes aaeeee  y eoegny
ei pera ae es ETS
Soman Sean Serenmererteacs
noses
Sa eee aes
Secale pa lo eto
Paper raiad
Sieces oie ys
Sapam ome es
See eee mee
Fea erage
Saocsieecooncaees ae
Sue oireeraee wee es
Seclaeses te reeeins
[SSS
Spits Sree eco aan
Seieornee seer
SSS See
Se ee
Sees Soret oa
SP e's aoa eee Be
SLciotes ieee

ITEM 4 SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
"Noman sutton dang he or ge fc ea 2

{Te 5. WARKET FOR THE REGISIHANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF
kguiry secuamies
‘wrest to HA Bleck’ conan stock appears nem 8, ote 20 to ou cosolsd foal aeons The rearing infra act
finance Sater On June 15, 206, thre were S05 starters of rear an the cos Wok price on the NYSE wat $250 pe hase
“Aoumonay ef or pes of a Bc corner the rth ere fl Yr 20

ITEM 6, SELECTED MANGAL DATA

fir

ITEM 7, MANAGEMENTS OSCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FRANCAL CONOMTION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Wevare » deri company ni saan Uhrig ts
Inver, aan nm neces a por: We the
‘iy rm company eg thal gh fea oie and
ace ax preganon soins, ‘combed ih prakend
‘ter pao top cle st rc are
‘Ou hy sre orn cn esa aloe
fae Sree earan acess fo ow series OUD Inport
<naaton oor gal oes md xpatg ou vt
‘eae anno ie ay ewe poe
Mgr Serves tain mice sage whe focunng out
Sutera her ur cnt igo i a
Serve ty, mi fa tnd lat lo ef snd
sae nfm sneer aren
‘ax sod coming business ‘complete the iniegrabon of oar
‘Sana bral tears, ll alread ad Sale
«Kremmen Serces~rect a rea pane whore
‘he tera consent mae tog afesy stoop
Sig seomen’s cos strc wi ts evens
‘on Feary anh we demi wn apo orate
qr evil owe comand ec srt eg
fd eter 20 repent ed ml matt forthe
fe ya edt Ape 3, 2S 200 a he er

‘meat accounTnG POUCH.
Sonica olgnest se eatin rt to mente, 8 pce
fect in tam Sater hate ey uncer Spi ne or
‘he nea entangle wv enced te fale
[Ria dep pce ar frase, leant roa eye
SEU RICOUATION Meher hyde

ech pee ple ep oO ne
Sia Steen i an of nt ep os

skmnet —s esos sake,

GANS ON SALES OF MORTGAGE ASSTS— Wo neti a
‘ulti sec pupowe ete (URPE), wih vena MOS
‘Sly ane Pew tne lems
Sroang rinsed 16 tardy er Ca ons fon
fons ae reognard when al ofthe sem suede (we
‘ak proces a te lose cx of ets ing sy
‘Dararee or rena ina hr compere a ot
(nergy le Ico ane e nse oe cere, an

‘estes be wht so oft endo tise a
‘alr cuh pete Ray ese rns be
‘Sel es fale eh beetles es, wh
(Se depstn of eh by he Trt: The eae a a of Be
(hw made wie gare marae se
Sito theetinse pected etcane tome dopo
‘net the rate ce aon iow "hate a Bs
werent" org ee Riper) Te sow
‘= Sample ofa typanira un a eatoe

‘ars te ges ae he ar ao
Si be a repr :
rete oe depen of he lace ty be Ts on ert
Secure eet wrens say ae

es

"VALUATION OF MORTGAGE SERVING RTS - MS ae caret
sth lower ef coo ara. Net ned cash Bw ss
‘cout the hse prepay etney fe rete oe a
‘Sms of be rein ae cash to be gene
‘Sevlg e wl mortgage oa arn our spn
‘ol meaty ae he ented fx es, ach ay ee
{ocd pate

Pret ses ae sa cried wit the mow of
Seipig ne id ap tees eae
re te et This i ts cece sop cash owes
‘pment othe arate ofthe peated MS Pregame et
{tinal fae sol caerte and ary art
‘Srtces Mag oni a ave pepe per pace fr
‘Seftor ttre ar hich ho les of man peprest
‘War poperent ts prove age an estate deb

Siew 82775 mon and $e mon wee eid of
get, 208 and 28 rope See em Be oat
‘Semlaed aca samen Yor our ology ‘urd ie
‘nya valtig Mr Se Tet 8 oon ical
Frat aera er aang xy ae
“"ixtuation OF coopwn a z
‘wae on a doula fw appt ed arket comple
‘cn orale Tos snpan he perl lees
Se mgt gen th aps ore i ee
‘epleano of ppp decent Chagrin te pret
‘ramets cal steal afc ar Te a srs
{Seunpoore would mcr of dc coated coat te
‘erating a ws and old ot or ochre rng he

‘ur esol balance wan $1. hllon of Ar 29, 205 wnt
410 ho af Ae 3,2 Ne out pamera were
"atid reg a ears 32008 o 0

iIGATON “Our gly = ort non he odo
scheme rt ss td 0 as
oor rare Way. for thse coming mae Ae
‘hough una ench eb a a ao Rr

es

Fa

‘ened sa angst ca eine Wh pet
Date rem tn tft, ay ected

“cone Taxes We clue om ‘cn ad ere tx
prev for cal yar be ails sod asamp at
oa eer fom hs ered inno x res ld
‘Sage spire cena ear Meine bao ed ear
fre more the spree prose When Heid We e's
Sedtealeaerdte nie yar
oe art ars moe Bay tha sr oe alan We Bae
{Gece eamngy re tae cme, he mx engi the
Juries m wih sper and tm pang mates th
{ct Ine tem we ere emit ne med ot esl fo
‘eae er ato cor reed mene rnin
tote deforedax sts wel be hed ears in Psa
wre woul reset ses porn a post proms

foe sae sal fore tx thom, which my rest prope
fer bee hii denen We ere we eau reed
{or any tweahy rete enters tthe ae
However our fare aa may close fete or slaole
owes tour ssimaed x tain ithe pete
‘Secumens remade ot ced or when sats of Unsann t
cil mem ep As er cet may

‘Ofth SGMICANT ACEOUNTING POUCES ~ ote silent
canting pobsws, tet tio the sae ilo nee ot
‘cera Se came a, ne never ta
‘ct on omg mae ah on art mie
{ops cometh enue by arcing sand arcs
nd rps ‘Atbouh specie conse ached Oy ese
‘Kinard atc tay case's maid ang: inn ening
eters mero rn whence
san es‘ he te oh ee eae
‘ur ancl reporing te ae

(ris ee i ow poral epee Ta Serve, Monza Servier, Da Sere ah tt Series

Ths segment pemay cote of our lace ax prepanton
‘nected stwar Ti epee nae ar ak
Us gto ‘

{we eve - Opting Snes

‘eh eres st ts he conned aches

a

won dal buns ered 2 pray de 8
2 mere ns see pal tty led eons

Repay meenae weaned $102 sion or 52% de ws 2 69K
nce in pean serge oe shy at by 08 ee
Slower nance
poricyotorsdecned $9 milion or 2% Sm neal yea 25,
‘Tn eres party 2 dere in the ne of RA
wa eaued am wetased compete for chou i a ea
Inte of ta sen

“hal eayennes cere S163 won of 2M, pron due wo
samt finger ren gi eto
Spares RAL oc coven 2 en sa el a een
Set ihe ie er roe saa
‘tom the pr ene, Our ea eal expansion forts ane cored
toatl nanan of $0.5 mao ammo of merce ein
xmgensaton an evs waned 92 slo, or pearly
Seo nee nat ese fr ne em the on
‘Stsayncy expenses inceae $9 mao. 1208, pom a+
fro of ager rt ego, de tS cee ema
(Gene efes ur ene a2 73 ince the ae et
rps docind 97 aon, FM prema rena
ier wane ee on ean nt
1251 mln or 6th pemarty ae to's SS mon Ince
‘St del vce 487 ti ot hich ied at
‘Tags and 1 ion anal ipl cots he etre ee
{he pnaon rN tle oor prspason met EA
‘or chung comet ns poion ad att 180 alte arog
Seton gate te cat cae aio conn

“he pretax cme fo yet 208 ceed $08 mon,
RAL tigation
[ered 58! mn, of 0 cmpare ofa 380 he

‘ie 189 a ear 208,
Seen ae dined 93 em tea par 0
“ven Pom our api bosons ramet 7% prianly do to
xg vars uy slit ty #678 dace camer vere
‘Sher see rere rene $005 moo 2 poms
sof nol een salted wi RA on Exe hs
Tayo revenues creed 61 me, ih ray de fo8
62 erase In he oss verge ered Ou
eves ered dung cal year 205 comecin RAL
arcpaons rene HLA ron cr 805, over Yat 290
‘Ran imeeme © pony duc fan creme th dr soo
‘ne atch ve prhuod part ret re
‘Sear nh oe charg! yen, sx nce ren
Semin! oes i ft
ver he prior rar Compensation snd ants eased 86 alin
fn yon es
Sickted cnpemsion tated 0 oar sora sae a
{om ara teat ofan Leiner US congay-omed ces
‘Stun ant spy costs OC Ue tol zee ote
‘eta 107 rs oo 0 eae npn. te cot
‘Fr nce in pel eat
‘ther wing ger and ainsi expen iced
slo a yl wit ov ning
‘Sparel aon eal exper off moe
Nahe powwow tea pers
AL UTIGATION - On Deenber 2,26, entered oa etme
See a Cenmins coa © Ra Ree at Huse
He lok fr (“Cn Stoned ewes" Pura to
bbe Stim Agreements rm we ol ene tao op 8
S&S bon cath ox prynr oman pment
‘Sh pra are ena cota lesa oi

hts the Carre Sten Aen

Sree ht ts nil sy ed
here can eo aan

el Proven

eS
MonTGAGesemAceS

‘Thi pment ie prey ead he orgaton of meine

‘onan ora spon npn beer network he gan
‘oe prime ape tag as math al fice mwa,
the mcg of mre

|

3 mosey seen

CAL 2008 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2005 Marte Seriow
Few tee ena campared 1 the pr yea, ih her
‘Man aercing sevens dn saves ety Wwe magi

Te aloving tbe vena the hey ive of lt xg,

Drspite 23% ncaa oan gation hums, ps na of
image tne decane 11007 haan, pom) 8 Toe of
‘orsign yan mers se nang ere sep rte
feeageo 12 at peat 46% now coment Ser Hamer Oat
Joe Ductsoanpetre mart cds we were ets ut
Jin wah peas utel ue, Ar such aan le pe
(eine bas paan te Se how 277% a ear a
Tem atonal, pry rea Io repachane stayed te
Pent Sen, sr gon of moran re The
‘Srvowr nfm) ha avon reae nu pee xuaa e
‘hep ew moth ar me het ep ace ne
(pel aa of MSRe we econ ia er 206 eed Lo
‘anncrewe of SL aloe an on sats of tote one Tse
‘Messe wee primary de hgh otgeton vlan, apt

oun sae an wurst te coupled th pt atin
Sepne cie oal rr 208 ph ene
{cal a My The amps wer tated primary ret
lower semng com i prea ae a woe oe
‘mona pups ght vo ates ane
‘Seumpons rem th mevpeed erage reo Merced
‘en al ear ppl 170ml (ae pat
{a rane to tn pt) oe pe en

“pit hk sort tom chang hake eet ree
rela to oan rer abet teen rt eae
‘wun derivate fc tress Dg ie Cet Yar, re
‘ested Len pana ond to 9 aon
‘Sangrmmt 84on cure es, core oe,
inal pa S08 So en swe # ne oma fost

foc yer 206 we compe slo rat ora res
‘aa hows om ee reenter wang ee
‘one aneton pained meer compton te We
‘rewind s pan Of 4184 man tyr om lar
etre beter tn exjctd oa eral abo mde
fewer ents an egal re, pny fey higher
(iis cayected tren ats” Wer recrdnt wore” peta
Imatcoeariet ajcmen wih incr far ter of Se
‘oh res #3 mn ung yar Tse sons rere
‘oro nt of eres of F140 elon tn fee tate
eel po oo mg tet a char
no nyo perma nas ws agent he
‘ent of ds ea reese poe

sermon bate

aa sercing reeas nase 11289 mala of 1%, cepa
soe pr pt Te ent et cn rt
oro fr th earns 298 alan, oF 37 Ko TSE
‘en ith tet vlumes er ubsesg tte Tae weg
Serge on ce pet hon
stom th for Jew Cn ef sere need 8 mao 3
fan» rot ofr mowge evict ing
‘Some jer tn rece smear

“Como so reenors neeed 989 maio nefal ear 25,
sa luca 4 80 mon feucor dye ected oh
‘Soong seo ur teach ies Se son ac fe
‘ett cage Bet ne 10 othe cman Eto
‘Shc Congest an tenets nce #98 lon pony
‘ino an meee theatre: ts of ss sts tn be
Sarto mua ae ba ounce I angina
{rinses cubed wih S67 ohn seer
‘ae reoried sr at Of thr onctng Orca) pears
Inewsed $75 mon rma do 0 $59 maize ee ome
{324 men party =r f 1 mon nana ere
‘rem ras so marge hae belt obese tat
Se mao of ata depen td setae fon
‘Molander a evi saline
sear) oe to 818m coal mare ers,

Shanes secs termes
‘bonus accruais. "
sates oun mea ae see
Peet
rte ote
Soe See oes
Fc saat att onomend 22
aDane aa Dain oe ore es
Poe i aoe ree ome eee
Sats mien fe nt ke ond ta wt ‘oom of $120 min
Se a canes md
Wantoeesneemes
Pepe peered
Sores
Sera See
Soe eee
op
Snaon models We recorded avrsbe peat tacklooarket
Sirenachecaae gam eae
Saas tees

Cont of eves rene $278 mao, oF HK, a om
eae ng pe ry a ih ch
ar nt Compennson and beets 8 mill a rl
Bs Borers the er of emptor, enctngencet
todo ampere gern proses Ylano

uses sennces
ol sevice carte ae eh a Os |

in Sein ping Stier

Irene fic yar 2008 cred 450 man 5106 othe
oper Tire ye ant o

Seng, ges an sine expan ete 20.5 ml
cor 137 bet | nonin need el areng exper
{a $74 rain i tconal conaing epnae

rmaniy. deen by sees th etl ate po our a
Shae ar

"Cpl mara evens decane 8.4 mln due to 496 dee
‘urement sve teens meted 09 lon oma vo
‘more ome rng be Ord et fut ner fe
‘ead ther tne evens need Ho as elo
Scqutons conte nthe forth utero al et 20
‘teal pom oumurig tems sh gon neh
compara othe por ya. Cs senncesineased 218 ln
‘imnly Oo 451007 aon rane nconpreanion anne
Ecmpentton eo! ets ceed 400 alin to
ewan Exes Tix and Bose Sees, sting
‘Reve ctre dy meg cmon
22 mon nd ear ot of sce eed an ay
‘ie somsstore

“cig, er oc adinie expres nase 89 mon
primal de to sono el adn coss nate wit oa

"rea Ince fr Uh Yer endel Age 0, 206 was 534 aio,
cumpred to rear nce 010 man ep Fe.

‘even fil ot 28 ee 4 alan 19K em
ori nonin mas eine or a Ske
‘Spee br neds rene he mel ep ne
“here n charge hows par osrng Soma oe
‘nage servces This demand sene fom oe een! tse
‘revcmet anew pedo he artnet
Capa mats eves ened #9 bo a et Oa 11.28
secre tbe muner of bases eon pj Pal bene
Sore come aig be nt bal oe ear 208

oar Bret reso
‘hc yar 204 cued wih ovr esther Ieee

‘et foes creed 92 lon oF 200% oc yea 205,

computed sth por year: Compete an ene ese out

vest semvices
‘spend nay mpeg fing she baned rodeage
‘Sra mae pag Carn of eet
‘rrccarbased he rears 3 mote aca Os

‘te fsck sere nage pr spores. To eee
inte siege nag bone tre by marke somettion or
Prana wal Hig apne tn tae ote
‘tere rong nfs rnones win soe

eat ice fort rt eel Ap 3,300 was 20 on
cemmpared to $103 mon fea Year 306

"te mee again sian

ae Sac a a eer a
Ses tab ats
rae RU add

ta ec era! renin FMI po wr
turngthe caren fat camped to 310600) In ep Seat
{Sieted prosctnay rev dr to de poco bdr eros ll
‘omg Sie Nomar sada ops rng
Theor gre of ee yer 28 rena i fk br ren
thee proaton Tee sue ase weed iWon
srs ing te compare expect era sr pec
{Gonna vans we entece mun ost Saat,
“Siege tert rae mre $71 illo 901% fom he
mee anne fhe rere as aed, ral ot 3
Satin ne mt
lncemed 3 mao 1.3 pry an ae oR wal
seal compere aa near een rong fos het
“Sine pra daira expenses ered 15 mo,
103% party doe ton 48 ron dre epee, et
ft tos trate ation wtnane Curent yar eas
Igroed dc unread baci Redon ining to comk
{ian etl gm e pono a cea el ng
tir gear These deca were pay off by meres tons
Su pre fer for veneer he ered pe,
FSCAL 205 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2008 - tne Sermo
‘Sime, or 3X The mere is pearly doe hgh met

Coperce erwet eprint, ich prove servo to our
‘cao some ca magma ch,
‘sons ad epee consnuveaans Seppe depict Cs re

‘304 Truman rvene Sees $1 ln or 1
‘ohne eine apr oe a as ne ee
frie year Adsefroicnyaonged apreatiy E5000 =

‘Guar sence wena ele $0 aloo 10%, om fal yor
2001 deo ewe fal eae erg esferme an Eene
‘evens now bing rece x prt of a ere

‘Marg mace vena cee $103 eno 2% fm
year S01, wch pany tk ofr art a
‘holed eat 2 99 neem merge mare beer
ot 8 mon fae yar 35,

‘Con of seri eased 617 be, oF 2% piaty det
476 mtn of asananal congesaon a ent sang han
‘Neer avrg comms rs an fal yar 20 and he Sana
‘Stenves ir cing avant pay et
1 deans treet andar expres
2k over fea year 201 paris heft 428 moe
‘al eg eprom pray oe ye of 6 io
he pat hn for sent Servos fr Se 25

ery soca to ot pean eget Pale for our
Ene mre fant Gang ekg smi
‘lve bow, tor ona sae iy ae
ea 504

Fe
penton easy ion Fo.

FSCAL 2005 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2005 - Conseate expenses
[need 2 on penal deo 142ml see tet
‘Semen, tt by 2551 on decline i net epee Other
‘Sheer read Gut hier une we rma nny
Speman gene

“ar conctaediret rare, both perting nn cera,
sea sib rc yo 30 noe Hao
‘ned ab cared on pesoneacqutors the remang
{47 milion rnd to oar oprcoee con cy ot
“ers sean

Nalin deparnent expenses 198 mono 16% de
imag te te bere in gta bier eee Ibe

CAPTAL RESOURCES & UQUIOITY BY SEGMENT
Strearces of opal mele eat fos operons, maces of
‘Scounon ck aot date Mee cpt promt fd wong

CASH "RON OPERATIONS. — Operating cut toms tte
687 a, $138 mon and 825 lon a Yu 205
5 and 204, reece. Operating cath Bowe faa ya 206
Sterne fom foal for 206 manly se to lowe cme ok
(ames, sich td 702 an sya come
EST ont fcal year 26, party iby ger SR

‘ecto dept epee nro #27 lon yar oo
‘ir igo bent ser th he
‘tional ‘conuling. expenses adresses in” competion
femaray du inttaee ects compensation sprees od
Ie apart ‘exper parle by h ecece Ih
Carnet cape

‘ther income ied $40 lon party ae & vot of
{123 muons eg sewer wr eee ng he pte
Per ty cr ena ce
‘Oye poor rar Tres icra dt her efor a Palo

Land 2 mln pan or tober nro in
{ran herr nd her merge Sh nee

Shuang eprint capes Inseam salon oF 61%
ear de onal marking ote fr yor 38 thr
Sey epeamer expen ness 9.0 elon pray 0
FEY thon of sidircl cckied competion exes
‘retention

‘tier come cea 88 milion pemaray 48 = re of
{123 ma etal coin

"Ihe le a on compared wh a dss
‘7 aon yur 90.
comp to 280% mal sea 4 The drew ee tk
(send on a eng a aera

'SSUANCES OF COMMON STOCK - We me shar of reo
ste In scores wh ons echoed cngerecon va ot ot
‘er tue tars Proce hom Oe anance com eck
{od $086 mlon 1361 mon SRD on fa yar
Si 2 a SO epee

(ERT = Oo eter 3, SL we med $400 mon of 20K
‘Re td for morn apace epee eps Of ther

OWVIDENOS We have cumtsenty pnd ques diem
Divdnds pid totaled 1000 mlb, $1850 aon od $1384 mon
fc yers 20, 2906 not DOO. rot.

SHARE REPURCHASES On dune #204, oar Bran of Deore
‘Suborzaton wm sddton wo the author of ali shares ot
ine IL 2000" Dunng fal yar 20%, we repucased 90 mon
‘res paruast Yo thse suhoratios at 'an aaeale pie of
‘30542 lion oe an average price of $2818 ger stare. There were
sccordane witht exiting aeration, sake! to Yanan foes
Incinbng the ye of he sick, or iy to mask sty and
‘hanes exis, secures laws rostetons, ager capital els

"ACQUSMIONS ~ Pom tne one we aca Denes are
view to bea sod sate to or orpazsnon, Toa cw pa or
‘pope wae ¥2125 mln 670 bon al 2809 rl un
‘sel years 0, 208 and 204, eqpethety Acs danny sel
‘Cash id in seal year 206 related fo the aegustion of is business
“ompst-ownd Ch pat i ined yeur 201 re to the cation

‘of ths total spree a special esr acount fo he excuse
‘Rt 1904 Rested ah of S164 nll Ae, 206 bed
‘Banca Services edt fine bl oy pl a eed
‘Ste on tee nr ctr, Reed ht hy Sgn
Sen tried Sl mr at Agi 3, 206 Tr tang
‘Semen to ad mtn ens

FISCAL EAR 2007 OUTLOOK = Me op contro 3 new
conjrte teat cy sig feat yer Ea
‘ng ci ch del 37
red Bt srs tT tsp sor, 208 eto
‘tccre wid the quartet amend payment on Octber 2. 2008 Yo
Showed of rood on Syember I 308 Om Sue 7,30, oot
‘oun sped an soauoel sstrtton to earth
nen Ape 2
‘10h0 mien wach weed on 2 with an aon
Blok Bans eqated omnia ere opi tl

Acne contig atone ch los seen tthe Ag 90,208 oes Caney, ra care
on eucteonpany scan tween pts Dad comme! axes of can ows ae esd ne 8

so ocmpery ons aaa ame em ftom

a trary aie ae om ring fn

Sepion ery ts a ei een a flo
Sows gma reed nt mens, ach geery ete
Sng Dome rm Hus dang the re een comon ik
Ste RAL prone green hh wan oired ted
‘stems a Ag 06

‘Shc 1096 we awe bee yay to agree wth HSBC an
ws pede fo prem HAs pone 4 gba

a

rE

wena eter
Cporetieheeremes cart kiees
Sites oss
=
Sitenevoc
sutton btn ees
Eetrene Sates serge core
Shieiemeeeeeeee
Seen See to
3 et nn ny tin ata
at a tana a meas torn
Ean thes pogo eee ee
usr hips mente Nees
Sees ee
ee Senate See
SoBe tree wenn Gqeme apne
Taree Sheer aemaetatac ores
ieee teem eeeeeeee,
SS

a
Srerlae
Hepes ence marae ta Sige
Pee eee
isles seers
eran
ise pireroaeeas omwaee
Saree ee ctermey eee
Siero
SEN ney © Sapa
Epes Sees Se
emer ine omea ts

GRRAPGRRR Teo eons
Lc ay daira
seesiatigemeting ore tence
Soe peace
erage ction erie
invrorihemteetees eaemen
Eel a a

‘ihn capa ef 270 mon HRB was In excen of the
‘syray cron corte shea pl he ee
‘ncaersng avis psy due to snoed pore

“manage oer bps Fe pos HERP» $900 ion
swaecued eet ae: heed ea ear 300 re na no

Tita esse roe cet wih ah wafaed fancn
natn ib ra eof 2.0 oT ee os
(sana bane Ape 1 26 oe 208 .

‘lay nes aang 1o-cent ling an muse browne
acne re oot par tod nh ances cet eka
cen nd working cal We beer hve steno fads wl
eatin tobe he pry snes apy for eect Seren.
‘Sex ant have hoary ren ed acondry sor
Fang alco aed eS aa

‘OPK BALANCE SHEET ANANCING ARRANGEMENTS
‘Staonal on oneal QP or Pata

‘Re tre comin tnt mong are o 48 Bion and
shui a ot 0200 at 3 repel, we ae eo
‘Sona an ban contr eaten ‘Tor no Smt on
{oem alr at feat
Seong owt many ie Cah ere
‘im
lett ear nn pam ang: pesos Tee sangeet
pry ol ras tin a
‘trnaly, ese sraermets hve fed spo eshte
cow canaty agreed Rey a ae
{Since set mk mle yg saya cry
Ge cn mut hon

the tars The Sere porte Or baw Som wg cr
Scar waht ccs, arg yang 805 hoe
‘Te fete met varus Con Ove prone ne
Iie tal franc Conran, melo ‘angie mor ad
se rm io mag ali ae
‘nig ot dete ther fa ai Tse ant

pate sy cleroed tng Tes tantra
‘Sa ca sor aan wt Comarpry Secured
‘Sato cwanee rr pad om marge Reet ok
‘Sucrose or oe sei an The
‘ican ite oa wc asd ae pon
theatrics ang
nasa wt Gyn Ceuteg Cab (0CC). DEA
‘eaten tn tule S00 hn sn noes oto oe te
tcp erent Pde eri a th lo sea yon 15
a ve #9 ae
‘ugar at see pena need o aac
‘etic epee an secon acing py amp
tneon barowin ty cutee

‘aces et eet a nth BOR en 0 0a pts
‘leap vow dae ring the etalon Some he
ftir pove fort ae fra wag for Aol
‘nel Sag sy 00 Non
‘ortlane he oer tga on sy cs By ea
teerwer ands bene tr Times wich ees aor
‘tthe ln tte Teor etl nr Tat oe
Sisto fon and ft4 maison a Ape 9 an,
reece

Sahcgeny, he Ts, pn othe nee os ton
ty he binary teil ert holon er She ar
‘ety tw Dart sr ack tm ol te low or
Sclasan The ion temps s banal rt ean
‘eeet on mare cond

Tori rar 2K the a goon fa sl ye at
eter eer pe oe teas ee
{tb rus cath Deg reed ar Aaa oan ss
‘hot eal erento blest, 2a htt, me

Tbe Tl he motgg et aban se, we ees or
‘Tete tte te ar at te coop matt ee

Ce rs

{Gs and' terest rman. Te section st et
‘So share spp yh cath fom om the poke 0
{ropa enters: We vam arte the ans the fa
trig etl ere an ree wy he tk
‘nga mara odie change he le ou ang
‘esl rt may ao ng, reg m ota! wre

"rth seat ofeach sear. econ ah rece ed
ou adn aera havo, werevese ie ented re
‘russ The Tenn relia ese are ceed ng
{Stow methods ted nang or etl re.

“acral te nh rao sar ea eet,
secuine he mat Ou eg rn oes tt
‘mar (0 tracts 2 NI ara the eng ed
le ane ir GREW rl ch, en
“ince he pond al tees and ae ago fe
Ineeor cat hws on oor real tere eral fer Se NL
eset to thirsty mrs pal fa

‘Aw sclametfexch KD ines we tone the ang
sv eres ean om ome acest ete

COMMERCIAL PAPER ISSUANCE
‘Weperlcte te US and Cet comer pope (CP) mats
to ment dty ease Ci el by BPC and tock Cas,
Fostering for BE of A 3,2

"he lowing ca prove the dt ngs le Black Cano
gn, 2

esa cet onc wing itl ee
aver torowgr pated a 23 atom Fabry 205 ed So

‘vi nro raid arabes sears

“berate raed rom NM coins
ing a trl sleet wera ae rae

Th comecion with the aes ate lan, proe srain
eprestatos an wanes slowing he phe oem
‘amin he pres a to rcv econ my
tropes bats we tanh of On arc ol
‘Sanpenerun We mann rere forthe opr of bce

Tatangelo a 47k ne ly th Trt
ef Ag 3b an 20, epee ander rc at
fSraoed tance shen ge 08 ow Fa Seng
‘Stems of Fara Accoong Sana “Aco fo
ion"tir capone dit nek tony the eect
‘ene for ean etd the mene
‘Sem ead to tatered fant a held by 8
arlene Our corr tan set warhome cien he
rot) mow Marge Sess sogen wou be oe Wo be
‘ole rnc set edo he ese the
{tat The fat sod for ths exyoure at's scheaded Yo be
‘eo the fn urea ar 307

‘ning ou pruopatonertn BALA No CP wa oanig nh
fee S206 or 208

Tis. CP bmn are super by #20 lan In ager
commited le feet (CCG), whch mate ape at
‘wan ia ay of ee al pier wh
‘Bent met rr amv ad pane oat

We cane annual O00) ion Ue of ce fx he peo
apy 9 To Ferry 22001 ace peak crea ope
‘Rast mae ta coven stay Ha oO

ope bn a swat tt cad 250 elon (Cams) The
‘Shadn CLOC whet al real Decenin 2900 Ts
(inc wes cs Ap |
‘We bt he CP mart tbe Rt he salty oor
cf ince pion v8» cg gal
the CP marke We Seber i ary of ae eee weet oc the

‘CONTRACTUAL OBUGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL COMMITENTS

100s text aie, cond be weaned ex fom
‘eCP nae, pa ger ot ow ony ca a
{other sae of sity ning ch, ee anand et

wet ing ap:

Tet 0 rem 200 wlio of 7 Sen Noe. ie 207
‘he Sor Neer arta to may Th ee
te in moe 2 on fe an
‘Comers We plano mae twe Seaer Noss won hey cme
reparation for atonal ett fmances he re om fae 1

or Form 10 fo caper rn ay, 05 he

owt det targa een a pr 7
‘Pawe pment redo quate pa esti

arvocined a gtem dt ot concbfae nce
ring eg a oh erent mt

REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT
ows ‘wien aan have oan! ses and
rsa, aad ia in er pc of
‘ncane tx eam pyre nm a rh sn fn
Ince tara the fois KA To tigations td
‘Source in lon engines, morphing, py. const
‘Siew sen toate.
to tame eps a soc Sten oars res 2
‘ln (sey a) ony sh owe ae

nee ot gerry eer arn te

svt of Lae oon sri and yo ln epee ot
ii me hae aod cory oh sa Lawn, Gene
‘Ste "eune under tadled sur nes the ya
{armen wo oe ape fo cera jars eras
‘mpince we Las fave nt haa mated ene cn
is, tanger tapes of ems Lao eR of
Saar rr npr ops cy fama

Molen Ante ocr come franc atemens for aceon of rer ened sccoungponoeceents

RECONOUATION OF NON-GAAP LANCIA INFORMATION

era spelen einen (GAAP) Howe, we bee cra non-GAAP

rclormance rapes an rats ted maaan Doses may rove al ating ompans ben cae es aM

|e 7A. QUANTTATIE AND QUALTATIE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

INTEREST RATE RIK - We hae «fm ently Hele
Suinmoneir evar, och oe pracy altted Oy ceat
‘Galty and mover interest ure Tewe uel fsa on
‘rae sty a prety eg wean Mot of out
Seren ‘atesnsune wots aed lis we marae a the
‘Stung ee

‘ur eh eats repeat el or agiy purpose snd re
ccmoneed fh guy. ret vee, neg aed
‘hh equals ha a serge marty fae oni wie
‘Stonags ch qubey of AAA. Wa uh A ert sat, ae
Feo nce aw ty nena ete ge
‘niday See te tle tow hr rots oan nee
Stan Sonne nd lime So

‘A Ae 9,290, a commer er at oui Pr cl
sear Dh the wg mean eh wen 3 dye an he merge
‘Sutin tne mu 584 mln As comme paper an ak
for Ud fea ner an dcines fo 20 ty Taal Yarn See

‘ur caret pro of age tad ae et at Ae
00 conta pany fade Sno Nate eto ach
Streatham Ingato cna pra earn
Sceltom ree oor comand fc ater
sce wa he i pan hon ry sat = Bi
a scare compen pani Sere compeneion
Sete ave uma et ny mana seen
‘Soler both dance aot) A Ae 308 ed 3 he
npc e's markt rae change nthe Conaned eu ase ld
tr Stoned compre ao and eer ney oes
‘real teapprnnay Si nahn a 89 mon, apace
‘Seung tet the habe

=a

nates we rede an 8 serie compare of the
erorive scone sesh qty Tans of Sasa
‘eee ilar doe et preset aay he Nak
Senay waaenalyaflcn cor cmobiand franca rena
‘oa sch anges do ea Oe yearto-yecompaby of
‘prmtng lan US das of sur bitnonl amet, We
‘inal 1% chang fring arb a wo nt
‘Sali pet come’ fora Jes 300 std 26 by
‘cer Ae nso wt ye ed A
rome
Monraace services
INTEREST RATE RISK NOMPRIE ORGIATONS — tert rate
‘nano our bese or ou erpaton pine, el
‘uly on runes HS

‘ed reo an san th re rere the more ns
‘nam ot tier ae hn reer the Boe tea
‘ooume rs a's ben ettes ros wi esa
‘tayention of the baa by te Tus: Se Hem 7, "OF Buane Set
‘eng ArvemcA r ,2 ewr A ien
‘e580 al A gl 2008 we ao wet
Toa ei ors 48 ont nag ne el
Invent ot ot bee et Changes het ne ther
In Tra. mortage hn he forsale med mg aa held for

Weare pine to eet te amc wth crm |
‘a ep a cy ae es
seo an ne En nsw re en
erm rns sna anges caged brome OF
{hoe sn we tate ty 1 lee wl Hy be ain

Te a ora an secon ee te sap aed Ya
‘hia tw wt’ angemne hana ci cen re
‘tcrane eae ri end eae on A Me
3h thee were 421 bon formar bn wie commient ed
‘nt of hem ew he op oder veel oe 1
cent orn na comment kin eon eo

Bi

he as a te tne eed wt ann se A Ap 3
ot we mere net of S20 malin reign he of

ene ne ropes an agen ahi rs nt
smperin she wep fed te arco tating.
‘pte on Bursa fs rere te ng ol «Baar
‘pon conus neree ae mas ie sal Usrete vale
‘esa A Ape 3,3, he set ae Pon
rome ern oerg fo. AA 2 had
Sere oredr rer 9 88 on aod 23 mle oh ot

“So lt how or mens wo

Ieemesr RATE ASK” PRE OMGINANONS A gl 3206 we
We vega ec moral coummers who Catone 0
Ie ine rg wi pti po Te fat
‘re png et es of Pah RC a OLA mente
‘ihe ton one re af he ens AA,
Sie werent stare 9 een oe

"Wl sot AMA, FHA a GNA mornin eres
prin ar Th posto on era of fhe een mat
Es icone sprint 10% dager to manana
Scozes Aameaton (PA) Seton at ty 9290) me
‘Nerd a to 08min eae thew raven

“onmce our pele gam we wea warns fey wah
‘aac 10 5 mon wd bar ee tone ont DOR
‘hr too ‘bv ase pan Ao Agi nT bale
ac ener at 8 aon
roms pei, hy ato rd
‘eats gate an fate los ong loot
Stet eons sw sels sug ee fe sone Cat
‘chet xeon prs re ences fe own oan
‘Shower nrg ete le

TRESOUAL TERESTS fae to rnd samen, an
‘eles an ool aes cone aed 1 ew
‘eral erst Refunl eras bear Gee ie ak
“bedded wine scion oe ani are ron
2am nga ning Reo eran at
the engung ik tat Be ang wae ae eared he aed

frie te mg ha tl rh ing et ne
rat seand wi ogee le a a est
‘Sidinasetsoqct ND nario ‘The ep and map ee the
arheaity of metodo Ah tee
‘eta represents orev aie soe oe
‘tn ie te, ao rte resent ie
‘eT ces rae ir ents apd the Bot ae
‘Sean swap ae baton UIBDR A Ap 0,26 we bad wo sn

Se able flow for sts ochoge rst ra for
‘Sscbdated Banca sateen for weal ana flee ae
‘inn te faa ke mating taal rete

Tsou pay toe Sete trance ony fr he pee of
serene rang may, which res hee he ane
‘Sei aa cen a erty gel ence
‘ae errant songs MS re ered te lot ea
‘rungs reagh mplrent age See fem Ante to Ow
‘Seeokied thecal semen fr Aer peal
‘cher Dt rane sero

uvestenr sences
IRTERESY RATE RIK - HRA tere eating ese mn
‘Suter ke dees and cu ozo wih Ce
oy of ants ro nam tute ad ego
‘re re fies fm cums roles sd eles cing
‘Sr van svt. Athowh thew ab ierenen to
‘So roping le oe sere whe ma
tt mgalcty expe wre a km Si en. A #rme
"Ses Saeco et aly ee

“Sur an ne Wading pt ected by chang mma
rosso geen. The ne eles oeme ara ese
‘ange ln Oe vane of he Ug porto. We vale the tang
Pert quted mae prs an emake ae oa ating
Feri ae, 00 wae gpronnay HG mn et
{25 min scutes alr Se ube bl or semen Lo
porta we mange ow sie poce Mk gore by Tn

cerns, manning mn cn guy and tltng
‘Sey to nce al rad and cate mat cote

"For outer of cat frat to change
‘sore of pl 38 a 25 re ered ow The

‘ag ie ye pt iit ata

ee
ote Fa
Satur” AY son ssh) pen ation ata Skates nes

ITE 8 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

‘Weal BAL Birk ae pated our ore als en focus weg.
‘ccc. pet sl rack Tew ae pene mae
‘i and deere ou reponse HAR
Tock Managers pone rhe rg ae siecrty a
te moms const ths oct Managed este
‘scomang pecs general ceed hte Untied Sars ae use
Progam of esas sl eques the marae es of
‘Covi tdare cry ew scene fan noraton
‘or ayer oral courl wer Sac! repetng so bees
tamale ae rere ring Ceo Bis Bs ak
{Soute proper Souped fo ecurged sent oes eat
‘etre in wong vp ap sar a

Te An Conant ote Bar ef Das, capone sey ot
angry hesang Org Bowes)

omer maps for eehg an mead heale
Ire cote oe eal Forint uh tem I eld Ih
change At ales fh User fhe map a ith
‘2 Spurl Comol nope Pr ned y the Comoe
tSponnrng Onan a the Tay Commie (0080) 0

——)

‘hema th Boast ard Chet acne Fc

‘Tae Bond of Dest ad Sorbie OAR Blak ne
‘nd 3, and ested comet eaten 9 tome and
lng ern noha, en at ach
the jews In th tkeeyew pened ended Apel 30” 206 These
‘Company's maagrmere Our eons to expres an opin ot
‘hes conse facial sata aed oo dt
Pie Conary Arca Overt Beat (ed Sala) Tse
siete fat a Ft
‘cance ‘moran the maou anf acters he Sl
‘Enews An st sk me saan th essing Fen
{Sodan suf esuntes made by agin, swe 62
‘ating be rl Gana sae esr, We tte at
“oor cn. te onchted anal tere red 10

anon rem minaret oh tht. og 8,
200m he Companys baal cone on nail pareg
Etccmn tent the cea se th by ithe Compan
‘Scmating fy, hae ised ana repro esses he
‘Crone! etd contd or med peng

Niner uct,

Wan tak
eve Vee eet ad Chet Franca fe

MAK Block, nds sansa of Al 9,205 a 205, sn
‘hermione thresh ws each pes
tthe Oweeger period endea Apel 3 26, Coty
fata hie Li th ed
omg Coed mol acong ng egg ee
Dette” dung tne pea eed Se S08

"Ws we ud accordance andar of the Pe
Campy hecurng Oregons (ned Sates) ie creas
Ste Comps ber corr er ans retin of pe
Slot ed een tained Tn Cnt Tae
{2 TenveyCommasen (C08, ta upon ed ane 2B
‘cored an angi pon on manana 8
‘Se eectn eprom of nora ona nr ft oper

KPC uP

ana Cy erin
REPORT OF OEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBUC ACCOUNTING RM —
Wwe hove sutted managment cement iad ie the
comparing Manager's fet On Tnorm Conta Or
amet Rory lew 6A0)), tha HR Bk Ine tnd
‘tna (e Company marae fle el sone et
ancl report se Ap M206, ado cn subd ik
Imerma! Cnet Fad Promevor nd y the Cee
‘Symone Orpanann ofthe Treadway Cant (C080) The
anager fe aang tc ea
recon urn acaraae wiht and ft
Ibe Cpa Arcoandng Overt Bou (Une Ses) Those
‘Sister tora Oar we’ laa prorat ato cn
rrsomahi ‘teeracr aoa wher eee cal ena net
‘nce cama a werent consel oc Sa
(Se deg and opting tcf mal cer ahd
1 commen’ ra con ovr Snail paige post
send fote mae sare rpg hy of
‘oral pen accra th gery eee aren
Inner how pols ant precedes ts (I) pera tothe
{eter be tannton and epson othe tof Company,
‘nc to preie eparson franca sates serene
‘sth rea seeped outing imtoo al es amd

Socaine of narageme and ee of the compar:
ro vate mr nt sn ney
mpg af het poet et mls As prec t
2 cae of acon ae me sa
‘x bat the dope af sompeane mith Pee on pseu

"hor epwon. anager’ assnet ta GR lock te ad
ont oA 2 at se al ar pec,
romeeor acd bye Cente f Spnsng pai of
the Treatmay Commision (C080) Ashmore HAE Block
ine. urd batearen mane, al marl geen
mera ene an poring ao Ae 308 nd oe
ite enn of ome Opa oe Heer

a ae snd n acc wae andar of he Pic
company Acoing rere Nr (Unie Se) he comin
‘Sei tne of WANs essa Ae, 38
‘36, sede ee mobs sarees tte ad
‘mprtnane coe, cto qu anc wor eo
the yar the ewer pre ne Ae 2.20 od on et
‘hecho 2, 30 exe aetna ee
‘onic ates,

KPMce uP

aC, Mn

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME o

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS —

ie

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY = “ssc

- +s aay -
sins ain _tinen i 21s s amas erga $ Gsnngon §

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOT SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POUES
tary frac evs othe pa pac penely teh OS
Spat rear x em pre oon i
‘hr oer ral pearson Fld etre efond
Strain boss oder by tars ang on, hd
‘Seong tx sed coming sees 10 bites chan, Tax
iweyaraton ses ar abo pmo Cana, hase a he
Ute Koso

mints OF CONSOLIDATION ~ The comand fan
stents cor he econ of he Gop aed or whore
ind" mwortyowned saree A mal ntercmpsey

‘Sine of ur inary oper repel uss, ad their
tei eg nl pon
sores amt sefo oe cet ya presse Tse
‘cine sly ae poet Pere

TManactuen ESIDNATES. "The propsation of Suna
sate coker wt paca scr scroasing pet
‘are rs aa gti ae
Sec ‘od tise dae of te clots an oe
Fa Al rts ral ier ane
forthe proven ft ad det lated wow parc iret
lua The np nae meas ret of oregano
Jou fcalectots aah mat pang be amen fr
{acon prt ed vee mcd ge crn
5180 mon ince se come $107 mand eres bse
{hed sage pr sar 80 eco ar

‘nse AND CGN EQUIVALENTS = Cah md uh eens
ince cnn and th oem ath td earns pc
‘hier apcenent ron Yor prone he conse bance
‘Senos and connate tenant ee flowy a noneancted
Soiy tld srenencs prone wth sx orgeal mayo re
‘aha re conmdre he ch eat, oo rerats
‘hued tours pte toned 2 land aon st
‘or 3205 and 06, especie

ssa fre sclera! feng The scares ne
Shia the anos whieh the secur il be seo
‘ata apes he recive peat Wo alley take
ieee facut, seo Teale agement. The sais
Sate be ng osx ed ea 0 Be

‘ASH AND CASH CQUUVALENTS- RESTRICTED ~ Cth and cash
tn rt a rr of weir Pad om
‘Sremens tour and ca wach hn ben seed wn spect
‘Serpe che he Scare ang cto
15a” Ai cham ca ser oan
sci Ink by ont eee ae cli ae cared
Stee ad el mi a
‘SSetinbors of mer Ice cad tng al
‘Sirens suroonn eed matt value bed on ncnod
‘Stow nese ae maried i» moet oapthe onmsled
‘Sdaber caren asset he cosabined baer es
leanne ONGAMEATWONS. AND” ACCOUNTS PRABLE TO
{GUsTOMERS, BROFERS AND OEALER = Customer rears and
apes comot ean anos dor on urge ab coh
{mcsoorThew reales re culled ty coetmere
‘led ana semen

certs fom bob ne colerdand by scundes ou
snl moron pt wah yf Rea
reson amore rome by mags oe agate Yo
‘See nate ome tot ble ah ne

‘Srenestonowed and ocr me wanton ae poraly
poral at cilamrioed tomeng The. toeacion rare
‘Tpeu of ah endo earl th th ender Sees
‘oi of series ewe byes tat mre peed
‘Sg hon sing sot cash este! pots xo
be tn of the series lowed mowed he tan ct
alae! eit rdf mare actor ao

the sect ose eet es el mth chor ce

"HCEVABLES Roca Coast pny of Deans Serica
scenes meena Tie wanes fr hts aes
Sommers Toigent eptng war mae nn,
‘onveing pi cere rd al a ume nee
Smaart be erate fo content nes mr Ot
‘Sean ind gong ton eo ew code
SSS SSS APS cleric
‘ssn nan arpen an one ne oon et
nt ted aro gation os aed e ote hak

ESOUAL INTERESTS MU SECURTLZATONS ~ Res teresa
Secure oh ow sth end ae te nS
‘Site tt of we secure snare. te crng ne
alan lomo rye in prenousty eed ee
‘Srvotear en rat ow ssn

‘tr etimae era owe fom the ean a tm
‘cng Samguurs ve bee tobe cen wi eo act
Sete penny Bema ep ao
‘ter one an rca orto pat
Foray fr con oer mmf) ecu me sore
eas cmt sere pi he ere fs
‘Shans wast Opn om) aperture es
{onan ob ow sped cee, ve eo
Tn (0 er pie the tea nd ue pp, sd
{Grams ne eso NOK bon ape te
‘evhalvlo takes io coco he cas expect
‘Si svn rt mre ed
Soemen of fhe neni portant ance fe
Spice an ates nm a ang aertn e
Sprretingat Tic coma ea Sow ae Scie a terat

reste on std tanger pat ns tenet
‘ers ons Sites» sor ee pt Be
ante sat eo, are of eco aces
ete “ty “ttng ett reomance ad pec
Siesptone ino sou coh mona ined Cet

rat ty tang ab ah ey
‘Sen tt, er wen
TENERCIC IMEREST TRUSTS TRADING — The benef
ters nT ecard ae 0 lt eon se
‘Tate The tial mar Ct 8 dng ed
‘ark thyogh the comoldated tome statements Far se
{5 tr once cane te pension tba
MORTGAGE SERVICING RIGMTS SB ruined = these of
‘ine ese the ne fhe ee Te Si ecard te
SC pre au feat aa ah ows ed ong
‘ou tonne emasng he rae of MSR Blo
‘tet ut esse wae pray ed ting
‘SSstendotar commie ion Te pepe ee ov aed
‘Sy ‘ar ese eapenence a edu maret sae The
Bits raat ears perenne vere pe
(Surnded waite ring nce rae med ur
Fete viet! send ono a
‘Sera wrt tre sted y Ue ro ea
Sio'Sae chen apronmtes tie fons, to! an Oe
ny te Sar mete ad ed re
‘MOMTGAGE LOANS HELD FOR VESTN - Mots ot
‘mur. Lowel resent we cael fst ot
‘Ser lar ow nts ae gato and ren es
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT — Rains ad ent rata
corte cata re pated ore twin a
1 ce ung he tian meted. Led mgenement
‘iy cnt a cot sn re sorted oe he ee fe ts
Site rsp lanet te a ace ng be srghine
“We case ea lovable el nth
devo or purse for mira we. Thee cons ae EAT
Wee cogang erst te ane consrcn fcutnew
capers Signor ty for aed exper: be poe

es
tre rt  place ding the conveton pin Captand
‘icra cna wale amend ve ber wach econ wih oe

‘Satan of he operon for iar a confcted
sn lcd prise, Por all ee nomen cg ae ih

indetaehie angie see or pare Sewaly 2 mae
uty shenert en ecu ot cannes ang WHER
othe mir ty han nt reduce the at Peo a poring ik
tow ts cary ave We fave dene st preg tesa
‘riage, eye Pn
‘Sum ast thee ae ae han fe
‘Shot of eam ay Tet were cepted ad mo
‘Scns epost paract wer fool fring al rt 30,
Shor abe
in oie, lnghved aston ange ames wh ee
ur ae aman for pure when eet Fema
{hese the caring aoe muy tt hy eerie hy snp
‘Se cryngvlve Tenet scone ch Bowe he eet
‘heres mpsrmere an setae plomed bw! on veal ce,
{Srna arnt ued, reenar ed domed opering th
‘wean oer operating acs to ermine npr a
‘natal npn thin to er angie ms er
[Sneed armors mae gh ear yee pe,
{The wehrsaverngy eof aang sss hte rs
"COMMERCIAL PAPER Sher barowing re sed fiance
tenponry by ed anion anal ees Thee ano
‘Sommerchl ype sxsding a fp 3 20 208
TUMGATION tr ycy tts runt mem he wd fy
sere ui a owed matey se
‘Suemeseequred say, fr se cones made alee
Sect Srdane wo men of Pan Aor
ements od eter sed cea ep ater ot
‘Shc probate ht sneha en cared nl rage of ch
‘eet Sate ony esa pie Fa
ssa Parra Cons acre wi eng Cana at

‘Novi fa an Se vpn ino

IICOME TAXES = We rm nner be wets
iy mein wh art od fed coe ts
Siti tn net rece x bs Doers ter deamin
‘pe epg ps ain a eo
(Sinead sng cored ta re exe yy fo be
Com nthe ore nsw mr errr expec >
‘Sreomered ested Ow Steeda ee ae el
{im canard andrei yt aon owen ed
(Siaubaie mac tire an hot ol mone ai a
(Sed te sme wl te ee ur care ees
‘Satna nade prep xen si er aot mt
‘Soot nner shee Nocatee arate ted

FrVole RECOGNITION rie reenas cons pany of et
sf epi eg otis a ba i tn rah
‘Sitges aera fe os emalang wrest erg
‘Scene Genny ety cd er
‘Sus mde wie mpd nid
(ihe aru bad won foxes aren ams
evens for sorveey freed conmcon oat he. Boxes
‘Styne weaned ne mater eur
‘She service ae pefomed ol tots ae aed teste

‘a ons ens eran rl of
{Oe keene betwen ca proceeds an the alncaed costo the
‘Sets la ig tay tos or rene rere Other
{STE on els mpc rea rec ate
‘ici acme on crm maga snes vec aly
‘redeem

Pret eters coe rainy RAL patito
researc Prati ai, which a
‘cred te prod in wh che pes HAL
ricuenn fern rere when we eso Farin
[tres he RAs Satwnererere conn an ox prparston
Sofware ad eer pero roost Se sae We
‘copie he product nl to ew ue.

tence ecopiton eae separ for ec wt 9 UB
time he adverimeriet arn Total ater com rc ca
Sis maton, reece
surg eines me deed no US, daar a exchange los
rng he othe yar, Taton sienna rd
SSS cog of oer cng
“COMPRENEANVE WICOME Ow compehente come
sod fee rey cee elaine a
ite charg In nt wean! gens ohne Svaierale
Inte sew ned saeco Ae 3
1 20 he ne uve ig ann sales Secs
fr 4274 ron nod 40.8 maton, rapes, ae foot
‘Serene tang sina! was NS) nub so 825) mon
Sepectrey. Tee het aveiaed holga om seers
‘sist run pena 0 melon vos ols
spe eval enpaton proviso of Sateen! Fea
‘Keung Sundari Nn 12k “Aecouning Tor Sock ed
‘Conpenaton” (SPAS 2), nde tbe popes traaton etd st
thevtbed ir Sateret f Pr’ Aconing Santas oT
"acouning Yor”"Sockaned "Caepenanon“Tranion snd
isis crepe ack pacha an (7 oh ine
‘cesprnson pan sar ten dete ncn nthe

‘atv accanng mathe preenbed nde SPAS 12,0 tt me
{nd emis pe share wold ave beh lows

see rep an Oe fil a a
‘ome a ering or acl cet re 0
‘eros aoe ect tn
tur rave Nowe of or dee ramet ty ore
‘eoutig Wert Ae 90208 oF 2 oo
"OSELGnUmE RGARDNG CRT FNANCAL STRUIENS Te
‘ag vanes porte ne bane abe or eth eae
secreting sccm rie acenrd tees ante cae
con fg dt spots fat se or We
‘estes setts nate the map ret Rena
‘la dann ave rent fore ear 0S
ee tr tare usm dle

‘racial Aconmeng Sundar No iS "Acontng fo Coa
{we arama" Anema f PAS ars 9
1 (PAS) ws ted Te pros fis sande
ft wares kono sided dnaine road
Dream The cant pert yd tn as
Somers heer Wh er Wey is eit

iad
‘sire woe gine so es yx 20% snd ty
“nese eros ere wen De sears aH ee
‘tert ara ur to iterate far ob hang
ina vale wil inp eau he prod a mh he change
Seo he cet ing ect th ayo
inane 2 Sate of Pec Acrantg Stars No 1
-Acomting freeing ancl Amr = Ax Aero AS
Stnomen Ho 1 SPAS ISD) wan ld The proven at
‘nai epi mortar aoe ma be ty ad
‘alu SPAS 15 al slows sere to come to Metre ee
‘sangre afr aie ot rot ng te "amet
rte begg of er fa eur 208 ough et stows
femated We we clreny eolosing shot ete ada of
743168 have oer oso eas satcnnt,
No" 5 eed 2060, "Saree Payment” (SPAS 1H) eat
‘Mat be reognned fre une prune of af ta asa
‘Ste de spin Th pvt of a sana wer dee
1 te Saw be ene a tebe or fe Jar
Shot ne apo of SAS 12 nat ave eri pat at
“ieaup 200 we ato Perigo Tak Force. ee
No! (8 “Beene Arangemer mah Mile Deere”
‘with arangenent inven rai revenue gern ates be
‘eeontion detemned Sepa oe ech ut facing Wi

emg tmp ee cage
Ses
Eireann cart rn
Se A stall nee
ogc pn preorlpelagl gt i
Fo Serene eet Sua wate
Seen ntl anne ht mo ar
“tn pat 20 he Final ecoenng. Sans Board
“Accounting Saban No AD, "Accomm for Trade and Servicing
Set care gna aaa Seat
Sima asain te aiguereeienne recto
eres eae eee ace
ee SS ea cs acy eae nes
“male tothe sructre of the Truss 9 coin to deter note
a rd
SI Snoting Ws thn leno to We eee
Syren elect tae spews See ed
ete ae ener cer Se

cate th nt Se mr aes ts oe

ee

iio e208 we nye ng onc

‘oro mtn come an ht ed
(rn igine tant and tame m wghed se We fs ee
‘Semos sepaen and snot dedocubie for tax peposes Toe
‘ermenaryperchase rice llloe ae mato charges lb
‘Senedd yen reson of sera mares ong, bet

 Deevtaaon of he pulsing. aden

titer tbr the sel aes
‘eancons sh payments rebed wy ese ques toad
teat re years Goodal copuand esr anne ed ot
‘te Dee re ep se 8 l  dcae fo
1 payors

‘During fc yor 204, me made pment of 26.2 ation mite
emer or fares he eames wt man

ey
pects wil te aorand on x sane tn er ne Ya
(Cedi coed the tmnt eed i Tak
‘liseli pemeeof 10 mao or tenet re yas The
Sones of spesiatsy 00 mh’ Ganda oped
ce nt rn ced

[NOTE 3 EARNINGS Pam SHARE
ace eames er sheer orysted ng the weiner
‘it fee sung he i pa
im acouting pcple aa allows

NOTE 4 MARKETABLE SECURTIS AVALABLEFOR SALE

Darng fc ye 200 208 and 204, we mae te gene

shh mre mcr fo a phere th per ing

“shiek at matriarch nee! ene emt

‘So pad $21 to $24 lon a $279 lee rape for
rove pects oe cw

ssuableupon te hye fra aici exer on
‘Scane 87 msn, 2 ein, 48 eo sharso sock fr

‘sored cn hd mare na of marae els cited wales a Ap 0, 208 ad 25 ae wna be

‘ie monte our arate fore ten tlio nr
‘revel ote othe thanemperary. Tse tos nl, at

et tb th ft the ecu he a aret ab ese
been fra peed otune suche ors cone nse ett

recent downgrades in sch raings Imparments of fait vale of
‘Sts tied $4 abo aed $19 wa rpc
$736 io, $252 lon si 888 wl dig fel eas 2005,

thy Ine me ae faved ort Tse Tse me crac of
Shor ac we thre nt coubted Te sae mented
‘Scordmee ech Remco Foal Asean tana a
‘sonar of Unies” GPRS 1) Te I pre fe
teu fer eg ene etme face weamage Asse
tance sheet and ear he pan onthe sae MS, rae
{eal at ne an pti Se dn
Sisto ‘ane! sou isisdolloe Apo 90 8 ad
2 rego

he sn eof the ere of pte he ts
ry bent res a ly
{icsdn compe uns 8 srs B pono
{tr or beta ore Trae, 2 reason anon,
{eater ur bse eet Tre aos caso
{imc Te wc nat meee Sono GPE and
{terete nt cna The orion ses ods,
ter mpered ye eh Powe um he ned ae hp
‘Sew wa ances he to he fom fang
echo ret sd my mine te tk Of for er
‘Referens Cg a ete an nema

S418 mation sept os read ines were 402 aon
59 mon sn 901 malo, eet.

atin tar et ct
‘Sno pray cnt ss the ler pt
‘Spl entra ster mee he coca atu dae

‘herein aren Thee res reste ced eng
‘canine mo gre! wr hp Ban
‘Sara trming won hn ben end

Accinty elit) to averse rendual ntrsts at
me mage loa esl en ales, sean rane

WaT in waren coreg esti
eae

Sa a rn = 0 oe
rac sae ta TT
for the years ended Apel 208 ant 5, repectney. Fla met
Berber err ert
sa 1960 malon ere receied fom the scuraton tas fo he
Rete seae
eae
Smog Saree
Fecind tatnce ts oe inom
eee
Ritu tin ces Sioa
Ss
andes ae gear oo

alg ane ees he eee mr ve fs eee
‘Sten cel projected in our aston od

"hapten ined pon waldo el rt
ad cet tom axed it come aa $i en 2d
Si ina Aga, 90 se 20, ety. Tee tern
(inst rere of eee ts toe emp coe,
Siew be eopgued ee © hie pene ee Greig

Inco tpepateapenso anther cet mets
gfe tare ses of Ag 30, 300 sad 205,
{S552 sn tnd $210 mal, repety,in a anoes,
‘Sree of me pane hs

"hn ized omar sec gs conus ofthe ation

ult heroin oer serap alas Sod
her ners nrg rar 8 a at
‘rungtana aed 10 abe isa Toe eanpbee ee pte
Fema et wer sarong, prea et al
{others may an pega hg dou rate
Be cents cv, wget wel mr a
{Cotet leas ongoted) These cans ein cpl
‘ttre gs on sles of mong has ry 410 aon ome
‘201 wf an, $781 malo. $124 on 418 lion a
“hw Sey tmp met ogy tite the ch oe
sof res eo aleve eal rene owe

"seer " ‘sn
oat eal tress and MSHS 3 A 3 a as lows

eet bh tite at i est a

inst urge mond ges spre Peps ss
‘tise pry epee vena Pret acted

napa arms Present re nampa fon

egy! oo 2% seo an Pret
Shona and shee! yop payments

Stic pol cet nes xed by sing he acta

ope vce ed ons nes poe
‘a aid mt ete aot cg ser
‘Soc, mocha mapa arcomerc to sacs

5 oun seams usw

‘Stirs ct fess repay pate exceed the aes
[NOTE 6: GOODWRL AND RTANGHBLE ASSETS 7
‘Sd hel 3, Si mem foe Sep et ey nn

a So yar ies soe $ meats Sara oF 204

‘ron of ae forte yrs eed A 3, 206 3s 2D wa $4, won. Slo and aon respeceey
310 mason apse ame

NOTE 7: rRopenTy AND EQUIPMENT
‘Trecomponet of propery sad ele flow

specon sod smortton epee fr 298 25 208 wa
(07 rato, S22 ation a 178 all eet Ince
In dhqrecaton sed ues expense amet of ae

oracle comics rele et Fa ak sted
‘eth mange ian "Ne gery er It re Pep
‘ips to mene pro or neat pelle Ps he
‘imest rar pment wiccly we pays fl Tae and fcr t
Tos ar, Pea pcm ar Ba ene
{era and pt opin tracts increase inves a ead
‘e's tama ant dacrae ite ar fa The area

‘oa sccomteddoeition  40 milion and 342 wale,
remecivey Dur canet fal oar me ated 0 a
Tpemert i we trans, tues and sap igen,
‘rh be pre of Inna ever Bode re he of Ka
Joes a Apel 3,26 tale 43 mon. Wr lo hae 4 mpae
‘apa ease forte eat 1 ears wih an op wo puchase er tw
ear Total ate ude ecg ene a At 308d
‘Den ial yw 2005 we apt ert cn f $47 malin
seat 1 contact a or ew cera beeSato

doa amount of swap ares dann sca ers 286 and
senate th ‘comments dmg are The saa
‘Shc ancl he conmec sale fru seine 3,
"206 nee 11 kon Mos for trae consume ge ws
gy ne a eto a tot
‘ing id trae be mls au NL
otter caf ara tr sen sca
‘Sem our mar rated Rong isd Sap
Sandon nO

"gr we had commit on th om pine a
pete org lon ing 6 ane spec pre fine

‘We sell lt FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA moripp-bochol secures
so tae om eid orca et ee
Sect apron 161 day po to sane Pe Sean

Tome of cor act ruts Quy He be 8
tween ao A 30 a

Nore»: tone-remM oes
{he comport nner de sd capt ase esos

(Otte 2, md 8.0 mon 5 18 Ser Nor
‘rte 51 ae eee by the een peo
‘ru. th net procera o hs saneston see ed 1 eps
Shem es So Nt were Nowe 8 Tae
‘Png pens wer wed fr meng copa cpl epee,
‘paved of be det soe etl compote pene
‘eel 0 wee 0 Om of Str Noe de
sth epertonsatement The Senor Nts ae de P37

NOTE 10: OTHER NONCURRENT ASSETS AND LABLTES
IXehse domed compen plas thal pal areca cern
Sent opr oi i

‘Sucking snot hve foe are nied er tore
Shoe 603 mito su $184 on tA 0 se 30,
apace, ecg to aby naive on Wea parca
‘Heise ourme counts on Cra decir aad copy
Regt sve rts o to mae ser
‘am Te ch seer tle fe pie Toe oer
Soyer mecha wale $874 mon $88 mon 3

ove 1: srockowDeRs' cQueTy
‘ae thd rn ao Peed Sick tt
‘Strode Soc OF te wu Shar mn ses
crise sped Parting Pree chs rn
‘hoa sacle ps van

‘On ch i or Doar of Dror stormed hens
senes ef 5 aie ae of novwan Peed Sk iad wt

tanecton were used fo pa 2 portion of be shee booming
tity Rd te soyustee of OLDE Peancal Capra
ancl Mare ers ne We plang efmncg e
gd a RD li ing nr
[Bt or Form 18. for th foes ar nd anny 3,208 oye
‘Sewer ane oral egardon oem at pe 287

"he hove tgnen rested > Baar Src soins of
{114 aon aa BRD won 9D tn 90 epee.
‘The cae! prun ofthe arene ne aren pron
‘tions a ov rm May 07 many 208

“he hve apn have ego 98192 lon Ae
"Tee apple payments reper Wore ngicon det ae
cr mato, 468 sion 98 mir 106 mao 96 ile ard
{fen allo nr 200 Son 2 sa an epee
ned perm rac rely sve eee
sina t,t tan longer tt an aprons
‘Bio? nalon a hpa 3,308,

Ne re eee 88.9 millon an 214 mln fo olin to
‘rin prenen priena ea, 208 ap 8, reopen

‘m cinancten wih our cps f ie toma mew of
cay Pon LP Oa) Apa 8, we mane eran
‘Sing snouts ‘ons monthly tak lnc in the omen
{Diet Sons ue 4 aoe a He,
pect ete sa.

Conver PrerdStack we pa ae Bg 15, 4
‘Coane Preferred Sc were smn a's par ofthe argition aid
‘eth thse opens Bach sar of Cone Pelee Sexk ee

company tet sat pn cera rs Te tldert e
‘Camere Prored Sock nnd oe ee pin
Ignis or edp of he Company. wa share raahy mh toe
‘erst Common Stock then otc iv Beant of the
\Conpy ter ny dso yams ae made oh be
‘tock othe Compan preeence oe he Conia Sk

Sosa

[NOTE 12: STOOBASED COMPENSATION ANO RETREMENT BEETS

Treetve Compan Fay tet Sek Ope Pa or Ole
‘ctor 10 Steck Option Pa or Seana moyen the
or ESPP The sacolses he apyored al of eur eck
"Te 2001 Pan repdaced the 1 LongTeem Execrve Compensation
Pam eect ay 1,30. The It) Pan ein ta Se
‘xcept oa pect to otisundng. evans eteundet The
‘Shah had apse he i Plan Sperber epic
et gem Ene anya Pa ich em
{te 20 a ho pu pene ay be pte to wad ees
‘ewig yee sie at a ae a 108 0 art
‘ew on be dae of be pe

‘romeo oder the 200. Pan are eee eer
ner tg) lg,
Atal of S99 el ae ef opt sar ang
three rs ter ho he genase mt

SS eae ome eer
Sect eae:

Cage ding the yeas ed A 98, 209 25 nl 904 ude he cel companion pa we fo

al
ies

1 mary ck one outa sd ere Apt 3,

Tee HS1P prowles the pun Lo prc sees fut Common
‘son hd papel dns mayo oe elon ot
‘esance The parce pce fe sock 9h of te wer af
‘Sy wsinte Opon Period oon te ting ay wae
Spt Pend Te On Fen re xh, beg
30108 and 00% shes, reyecey, wre paciwed ede

sng ac ar 6,2 an 204 we ond cope
cing mise! on be de of he past The folowan wee average
‘Sronptreand fa en were ted or ok Opa ret Bet
ESP pone dung the pete

Horan tative ae
ator eer

eles fowig the completion of alba peo Ow
‘SS lon and 420 bo forse us 200, 208 and
204 ronetey

sera er Deco ge ck cin)
Sent by geen poy epost oy Be
EC pn ahs cre eer) When enteae,

he tr le ach Ril may pce rn Campy ee
Wena a ne tpn oc
(Reseed et cck pe tn as et (oe Scere
Inet prc fr emer te a ew of char
Fran Pere ck se sors for Commen So
‘toe ashe ae nant te these pce he ah
‘meng or 50% ce ome out tts CF euing Powe are sold the
Ieper of rh Rg han ha ght Ge Spe Rg)
‘che noe pc be ig a aro ao ie
‘Slo egal tie te oxo pce fe

“Aber Unaproed Slck Aen ote ay person of
‘gourmand Se oat
cemion Sock the Bordo Deer may exe l  pat fthe
then owsanng nt exeraahe Ras for Common Beck sa

Te conponei of ste apo which mess og ince

connie, canine fo isteces ewes the fini

retung rto of ove share of Comme Bick pr Ra he

achange) pm ty sch Beane, eof Sy ele 0
cxeroe tt mina, pon oc fy he re
{mg oe nthe xray fhe tmp Seo te Meret
Fg eth ayo te Boat of Decne the xchange
Qushld yng pons ay sc sew pa
‘ean rey ae tothe Sac a, be Mer Ra
‘Wey ree ghee of OE8 pr igh ay
ta rt the erro at any So Nee,
Scr ham wie xt be eo cts Urals
[S'exercona the older Uhre, an such, wil have mo ahs a8 8
Socio the Conny meng the ht to ret reer
Sided The near othe hs so ae cook
‘besotted earings ae

reapecive tx hae The curt a een comptes of as on

The components of fered ee lone

‘Sownoe for eer tr ua fr 305 wa 8 aon
te tehee the net dered ta me a Ad 220 of
£254 lon ene thot oe Wee ral le
‘Seome exes spp $7 ton aed mabe a
7s epi, 38 we ad wet peri s ayorear fo a
wen noon sare and fren omnis of gpl
‘pus dg al Yrs 207 toh 30
Vi ree enya rer ery yn
testo mal teu sta fac up onan
‘len sanaroen Slee heat br ee ae he
‘Staten n ihe eet eg mins wer nd

NOTE 1S: SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION
‘Remade he lla ash pom

NOTE 16: COMMENTS, CONTINGENGES AND RSKS
Couns Ak CONTINGENCRS = Al-Age 30,208, we

Iabtined $20 tien tt tachap creat tis to tgp dhe
‘and ada ts pots er am, Tha bes ase! 10
‘secur atmaine and sepa ements et
‘tected ton in
tansy Yo Perry 22001 bc-p peak canoe popet
‘ete naan nh sa i te
Te mana revohing edt ty i a amount oto exaod
2350 mon (Cran) Cant spp conecal ppet
og wah ig rtm pnt nag
‘Seeneun upto come pe cl it 808 au
{artes prapsaticn ror ch me ae rapier
thee amoats ee he term of he mate tse won Nt at
‘gad expeees od ter cet sats The ted EADY fe
‘Stace the cert me a
‘each Cobtsed tan abet oh eae POM
‘Seats a moped ew od Sat

serge te ya A 2 ae

omnis poeraly here fed expen act toler
£0 eon and 2 bon mA 9,308 a 208 respecte,
Entaml artl fees pet te ebay coment bone
‘rece andthrefoe, a ctesmet arn
Inthe neal cue often we anion cue wth tad
‘aioe haat of tee ecco ad waar
lace of re elie ant 1103 male ere fel Joes
te Ape 290 snd BG tpetay A Hay Pas een
‘Stashet mits tothe patra! Tow on pcan fase
Brel o S24 mean $7 ro Ad 9, 200 sed
5o0h remecsney Repurchase lore re ory sda pat
‘lc ect On ceasing we mene sc fe
Sabai, wich bead upon ele of te bm =
stash aco panera pee ane cet
es ‘n"te costed tc ‘levi br cng”
Sceny ofthe snus ney, we conser wa far to
fre "ng eid atm al i he
Sarnia te moving fe.

ms sereeete aren pang
Sea Ra ees ae
Sieceemesoageaies eet
Ehapas gaa ere
fukovoes cores
frien earnest aeee
bate ie eee eauaras

Sever tee pesos ores rg see
St eee
eek

Soe hare =
sea madras cago
Einepecorgtocer ems
memo aan esr
ium ener
Sk ehicaviogeete emer
Beneomssmeinea
Bitioss aan coery tigen
aera
Sonia pee enero

erase a raga
Peer al
aa eos
Peter cre
Scheer a
STenwiee Ses ae bree ee
area catia asoeeaed

stn pte enh et prc oh tt
$e km tty eared by ie ces ee, wren
ved wy ok tar asa yoo Cason pone
Stina mcatuce mt open mae Su purrs Cod et
ore ree te ncnerptefcotlned ocal ouseees

"ot Apt 2 we had re secre wig 0
‘chil arp dpe eons of Ma men

“tna ce ang eh so re an come
‘thst wd semen tne mnt he art eo
thers and sek to bal bona caer ous prcetion

incor SOS RPA reed 10 inlet free
‘Sohne scared eter ott ah tance aan ih 2
‘cea te ne ya 295 Dt oo Osage
‘ea Sa” —
spay Pach pty Uns of Ce CH) The comment
‘nro eS ed mato wr a
‘Sees emcee poe sour evn on he PELOrao
‘abe 20

We me maka fo cea ls, inchg ota emlree
‘enh tenet nr cme poet
{Shy cms nd cnet or PONT popes We ae ae
fy reo ce eres pring cas et a POM,
‘Serr enon nd ou opeaon scans pe
Stow ater of caf anos et ted 6 ao
Eines 605 mon gc ps2 te we
‘Sains tango tae fe

‘Dug fl your 300 we raed il comme» ew
wet agar hy Soeown aan Cy, Maso We
‘Seoneuly sav som, such oe Pd ang a

‘Dating el yea 208, we etre ie a rant wit the Cy
ari nn i ep i
‘Saige iy Unter theron ei
‘eet ymin 63 cies mana ene bat
‘my an rc he aa ap ot
econ yo Hema te C5 hs eed ed

(Stoccenent he hase ssi reves Ae rate he cal
‘comet proper fat ae pice our ors
nce bet At re othe lt ote pal ae
thupaca andthe comepondeg) tel vesneis have. Beet
{er exewpllons forth ieed tare acres snd een
‘merorements the acy The tal mount freee Nos
‘mcrae fr smance 80 won

Inteane premonition en
{3 par to § pram, eal op ad pte ar Sod
‘ony ma Fare none ane oman Se 2306

{506 nto, 42783 moe and 12 ao respects

in te paw couvt of bomen, we eraser 0 rote
xara by) Tea sea Tag bor In
‘Sangre po, the pont mtr ase yah
‘thre ag nse xanax a ae aa

‘eer enero canada Bat ince embed
Inder bve harness oes Cet
Ita slptine o poet cuter pais frm os ming ome
ie alow I) pan er Fa eet te paris ot
{teens of bnnemet 2) poi nt tert me yf
‘ets 6 indeeson of on ers nd ee)
IraanenTplaly, dare bo sated ine payment flan 10
‘ay enc ne nl ty he pe sae eats The
Iketbood of iis Png red agit he inate
ty ested any och ce yu to rect We
‘ed indeniestne eo mated of Re 3, 28,

RESTRUCTURING CHAROE ug fac yur 200 ested 2
reacties wih os Monee Senos self rece
Sa mom nanag qe: cba come Se
{atc Sor of or Bch eee Deg ac Sur 5 re
{Rewied SIZE mle prea retrocnng larg. coasg Of
{crmnain ot feta pacha 25a of ect
Ineo The npn components th rr ee
toured mot Ae 900 a saad lowe

“Te tty ind foe mrctarng care eed in
ccomis ein scend epee tad te oi cone
Talane” sheet Payments of enploye serene cons wre
‘ata Sompleed by My” 2000" The remain cont
termton ssn pray eof ae cin Yaa
ten ugh cbr 311

"glo arn ro nh xt egg th sno of
Sonecttenruten cot nce stuns rpg the neh of
Adel eds oalay toe ee eas
calem orsangvebarower prs hier kel ak set
‘tan ine, Ho evn eat, Bet
tery ome to mn pte Baron ae sensi ay
‘she tae lum goal he mer med sey mah
‘han pine nw Dug fon 2008 sprout BS of oe
‘ore lan gna mere nwa ie mae 211%
‘eet reams mg eh ea er
ot beh natal ate mortars ad ied rte mortgages wee los
Toredom snd tne oan to nape borrowers Sl be
Nowe tke sires cconmle continesan'eet ee
Sone nie mre ong ety eer he me
‘chee he unoreting posses pasa proces we emer
(Sw gue ane ra ars maw oe
ccemes wil aad fants prceton sue ich Bec
(res or see oat ate mtg as we ogee =
Fra rt potions wl tied ease sca
Straperse

“Comments an one ve to ana dees, eet of
cos ed tarot a ene a the an Peep

NOTE 17: UMGANON AND RELATED CONTINGENCIES
We hve bem med 3 eft nme it ought
tbe nmi gman oot RAL propos Che “RAL Coe’) AL
{Cas at aed avr fp ois ae by Pai
‘Ton oct ie seg at nen te (cores
in atin ti
(ince at ne ud cle po Brace chars le
Serf och hae) ee, arn sete
“raster sch of coment ce, wl wd
Innwtnced and Cc Onposatinns Ae a) atone he
ur Dot Cac Paces hts arco Wop
{ore concn sto sa) we owe Sn reac» cary
‘hays ourcwtoners a comesion wre HAL propa

“he sts cmd BAL Clos tne ben very susan
snc eatin er
‘Srumary joer, and ethers were dma lola yO
Final ser eof cn coer Ook” crs we te
nro sce eat gest sed Yer 200 of
‘02 oon the "ns Beem Thw 290) Stoney
(acre bom

‘On December 21, BS, weenie ko stent agment
repr fo RA Gas Porta oe teres is Senet
Sreonc. me wt consbote otal po $525 on es or
tary tesa onto cl coma! so covering sere os
ithe epescinine pe I naan ve pn cosa fo ong
Sole of ie stoma ethene ree ae
‘$0 mon in sal Year 08.

‘1, 20 ne retro eter renee bjt
nol ct spa tego ee Reap ad
‘ico wal $19 ple neh peso
Cone car rome ceive pest svar Wo Pil ad

‘Seon pletal baromes on ney cease

na hv matty of Mogr Ser ne rl even
spacing aeeached eres mar atch met and
‘tn ret cal etna cr mat aes ane

set sd nminsartion cons. erred sree $125 millon

‘he Rec atone an 3a Sore ner! ae ee
‘Staal The mate ct hs baton cou be meta. We
‘Shee wr ave metodo he ma A Cae
Se imc to defend then gro. The ca et seen,
vere oth entre i ng RAL Css nly
‘Se"napepe Lukewin er can te no sures sou Oh
"eeu pry cnn oa prea cr eet
tar rear ig tere our POM Bares prosen: at Epes A
Fan psig sven Tea Cane ae la cla
‘Sons by maid pale ee i ch pl se
‘mets any at cnet The aos
‘the ae sity nth mpc omc eon se are
‘Scat ‘o pike We ured 0 contin Geetng har Ce
‘Sera thou the arene aesanee a aca
car pty oe puts an coe egg bn
‘S'deecam ae dosndoas w sverapue shrehae desire
oh rs Faeyr ito el oe
The yalive mae'r low slop, sng te ano
rnnare fol ater ern: with erry ace
‘Semi srs fey per a ean oad
foray lege tech of cry uy ase of col ome
ngewe ao niches The Cae
Sheae dann tema ar dean soe tae, he
‘etc, We bled to ontmor edn ime ce iol
TShush Unee rt no nrences on oncom

Ineo othe soreness of case ae pa
itetental 10 or tine (Olber Caine sod Lass), anciing
{Gr rome, tr plowing mrmens he fer carpe come
‘nus eros, frees pot, aestpe wih ne
‘leuat purser mes ane San, rato,
‘retry aces lee an sig oa ie

ove 1 suesequenr events
Ieach S08 the OTS aproetecarter fe HAR Boek Banke
eae cetan poe oor ane lee mane

Nore 1 SEGMENT FORMATION

‘cumg topes sf senor eed nthe awe ch
‘eratiogdchemons t mae We igen he flowed oot
‘eae epee

TA ect ha eet ray nr ig
{Gta Kitab he et ng Soe ems
tite rote fetus ion aes tax Prepribon and
(o'EAle ‘ie seg ncn th Companys pepaton
Stemware Tanto Ha ck nt ter pore ry
‘inten pear te ta aie to be geal ae
tte ene wate ew of pe oe
10 ado S6 mon cme Sor Be yas 205, 2308
Sitesi a 8 na, 1 alone 11 male
‘pees nce eet

‘oprenct Seeks Ti spent prmariy eed i he
‘stage moves tn seang of orvpme ian the US This
gue wan eens ttagh nee of spends mane
{peters eno roc eto brrmers to ae resort

arene ans. ele we ave meters defen eh ot
‘tne Chane ent lavas and ae endeg” emo
‘Slug eae a ty ea
SE cs pean Omer Ca nd
frontal cate epee, cn Sgn a
sit ai ny et

repring src. Say 296, AR Blk Bak pra ea
‘ese are scar lo quer fl oa 28,
‘hich were belby Option One a pr, 36

rot, wl nse eae proc te male tough
Sch ed Seah Bk rie Capron a

TURNS! SERNCES The pratense
sccm ttt Hes ing wi wah a
Eocene tm en et

TRESTMENT SERVICES. Tie spent i poms erated
at en mie cera og A
the oer pte eso net eros ae Pay fod
thee Ha ck Pease Ace eh ene

otto pet mer een ris
(tebe, fess banas reenter ennai, ea ne,

tease yb Te jc om Cpr cl ear 29
Reem meer
pote nite este mre a ch pert see
erry yy es Sot

Weel
NOTE 20: QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

he scum of oar quar ec Fas 308 a 25 for
arn per te my ntl rele per sre aot ie
stn Al 90,300 308 dt the peo ely

Nore 21: CONDENSED CONSOLOATING FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Place Parent Coreraten (BFC) anne.” Wil omned
‘ona of the Conny BFC he ne nt Hat Block a te
‘onan ofthe 1000 rain Sot Seo Rates et Ape 19,
Senta fae armen prt sats forte or

ons sw
gros

tury, the eg of be exec of sk egos ad re of
‘revi sures ante monn whet ef Mock opened

prepared mag th pty ton of outing ceo nen

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING INCOME STATEMENTS

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETS

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS

ott

OF CASH FLOWS

{TEM 2, CHANGES IN AND OISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING ARD RANGIAL DISCLOSURE

Eeamtuation oF oscLosont CONTROLS AND FROCEOURES
Wie hove ecb dcr crits an paces (Det
‘Conti etre ta fama red ote cade
‘Congas prs le unr ha Scars Exon ct of 1a
‘aire eee poco snared wd opted hn he
{ie penis ected Inthe US" Scares” and Exchange
‘tinsrmen, neting dwe C20 nl CPO. pref alow
{inc accusing soared cine, Ou Decoe Cots
‘wre desi to poms tere sce hate ea st
Procedures cua ete eet, Ou eaten cage
ERE Exeatre Ocean Ch Peancal tear, doce mt expect
Se! ce no mar hw mel Sona opera ci prota
‘ni rani rare hn he re et ere
{Semen ero jt ane Se
nina con prove soe asmnce Dat a tout ats Sod
‘ee inherent laos ‘nce te eles ta tment
‘ample aero aut. Aan, cool can be cco
naa stn mae prey colar oor ere
on oy magn ie the a Bn oO
Tv lth nd ef the prod corre ys For 10K we aed
tan edecenom ofr dean snd operon of sur acon
Cnt Te eminem er neuer he sper
eran ue seca Oeer fae oh ron, ar Cet

{TEM 38, OTHER FORMATION

xc Ofer ae Cat Panes hve conc a oat
Dine Cone wer flee a of th ed fh pend covered
te Anval pn or

{@) MANAGEMENTS REPORT ON WTERIAL CORTROL OVER
‘ag gt rs rl a pring
Sera nd wah pon of rac, ing nr
poring aed onthe farevootm "tera Ctra
Frumesst” red byt Conte of Sprung Orgs of
‘Ge Treadway Conan (COSD) 5 of Age 30,306
ie Cepgs aal e  d e

"Toe Company exemal nation KPMG LL, an dependent
sd sng fi ae a
ig eat pee en 8

Ne)GUANGES We IVTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL
REPORTING ~ Dut the fouth quer of Owl ear 200 wr
ents over Scouting fo incomes at Ferd
Sot, In ation etl eure wee oat
tm ed ret oo 169, pan pe
‘Sleuano rece mcorpors In we cas pepo forma
‘era ce males eesion srl hwo ean
Ftc a pont ty ange
ty at ot esa ly Mealy alle at
‘vel tn re fant prone

{Te 10, RECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
‘Te olwing cormaon wpe oe se roy statenet, Weve oped 3 de of nines ic mcd hat apes
{ote ed ns ern 13 ayy ser hr 30 290 crpord a ou deco nd cpoees cg ci excee
en ference ‘cr, ee nam eer poner sung a pss
* ump Reece AA ie ara tebe Teng etn
« irmatee appearing omer the ening “od of Dlr’ ‘awe an he cde of bss er nd cod
‘Mecanga sel Commitee eng iraeenn ofthe Sud

Informatio about or eet ofr 8 My 1,206 a fos

=e Spear Peeerscovmen—Siuelteies Ohare apr tage Cosome te ier 20 ot

as out Vea ht Commins ‘eres, onmncon s iy108
=e freeones tne mene Rr (ng um kr borane ora oS 208 Pro
—— US Cea ce ts tom Speer 155 otto

poy Sraciesmcenterm Sooke, co tems ep Some

[wow sence ed pst to Repsston TAA ot awe tan scorned tren by rastonse
Top ge afer Ap 220 the scar sid “Dec

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSIP OF CERTAN BENEPLAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMCNT ANO RELATED STOCKHOLOER MATTERS

rox statement ed poresst to Reqssion not er than
10 doe ar Apel, nthe scone “Ey Compensation

{TER 12, CERTAW RELATIONSHIPS ANO RELATEO TRANSACTIONS
“Te moran cae for yt em icone oa ire
‘Sher sgn meson ied Empire arenes Change

TE 14 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES
ou ate ied pono Repti 1h eae HD ps

TEM 1S XFS ANO FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

er ant me ween tnd ett er Seunty
Hades” torn hein yer

‘Court sat Ober Amangments” an i rope her

ser Ap 3%, 208 Ws
‘Sept een by eee

1 Te eng Salsa pyar on “Conan Sater of nee a Compre nme“
2 Peon Sst eon sn Qaig Aout eh he hind ort Rep Foc Noting
3 fn Tht of nana hb eso Reger corpora een yee The sowing eh requ te
| Fede east te Form 1K

106 The HAR Hack Execute Pxormance Pl
10.88 | Aperment of Stirment dated A 20 ane HSBC Finance Conpration ISIC Tuapayer Franca Sees
Fini Corea HRD Raye HAR Bc ern erp, aan A Cre

1077 Amenoest Number Eh dted Api, 206, onde beteen Opn One Orne Tr 2901-8 a Wes Pr
. enc’ Nx

12 Compsaton of Ratio of amings to Foxe Char fer the fire years ended Api 9, 2008.

TLL Cenc by Chet Eacetve Oe passat Section 9 fhe Satons. Onley Act of 202,
312 Cohen by Chet Panel Othe psn to Sect of he Sarbanes One Ae of 208

et ame
222 Gemcaton by Chet Fnac tie prt to 18115. 180 a ape by Seton 98 of he Sarbanes Onley Act
ota

| Bal
sr 00K mC
‘The tonnes are mer secotice wth he Ee Table oR 6 of epiaon S:

‘ecm oe tt Conan ey epson 1

17" Samay of tonnage Sac Cane nes Hd

enue yo fe ga a

11a ita ea ep ec ge

ra toys Se te ot tn 704m ea ao
“Eee ee eS
vo Sate me dewey © cay f= tne o's tego

“pant n beoeee i .

SSisoa sigan Suro Se fk ns cones i ye

fase irs ay un oo 180s ced
NSP bo anne na Ber ever Bey Me Para
‘See i dy erp

{ica tina Capen atic We, tors py ow
ite Tei fe came crt om gw hema
‘Save mnt on For Teg ie te ie 0m

‘Eten pono lr Woe oven, Ste Oo

1050 ht ac sr a wb 23 bt Cn Cn

‘ocr te eos argon ewe 0

ai ee Sad She eos 2

‘See te om 100 tre eo oe My 2 NE

xian rate nfm Pea A205
‘ect et a eg Ae ae a 5

owt cate enw Apes 28
‘ERoC Taso be amt oan oom fod fe ot

Jar sang Aree of e018 men

crv of YG Unde etd ie cg Fe
SSpncty taStee sete ta

Ot MADOUARNERS an Ma Set, ama Oy Mn |
‘OME OAL CCE Spt Kass Cy Mao AT
RPENDENTAUOTONS PMG UF Kana ng Mm 605

Te AGENT ARITA Melon esr Serves LC 0 Wigan Beard,
um ha Ho ey O790100 phan 88-3988 rnin cot

‘ton itr Serve rds # vary of ari ted as n0cran
ring ching of rove acre comolieton of aout ok Moe te ne
ovo 5103 Madd on ew Yo Staaten, er Soba HA

‘he Halo Cy Stag ot mon ation 9x Prhng Ra Kae Cy Maou

Upon eget el fr without age oe yf ou 208 erm

rn Mant,

