Modification Summary Report

Contract (PO) Number: 17063
Modification Revision Number:
Specification Number: 59775
Name of Contractor: SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT INTEGRATION, INC
(City Department: DEPT OF FLEET MGMT

_ SUPPORT SERVICES FOR MAXIMUS FLEETFOCUS M$
Title of Contract: SUPPOR

‘Mod Rea Number ‘Mod Reason Descrition
AMEND PO # 17063 FOR
SUPPORT SERVICES POR

ss MAXIMUS FLLETFOCUS Ms
s7073 TIME EXTENSION Sax FLEET
BeEvELOPMENT IxTEGRATION,

‘Term of Contract: Start Date: 71/2908
End Date: 6/30/2012

Procurement Services Contact Person: JOSEPH CHAN

‘Please refer tothe DPS website for Contact information under "Doing Business With The City”

‘Vendor Number: 1055985

Submission Date:

“PR 2 6 ZOE

Specification No.: 59775
Contract (P.0.) No 17063 (“Agreement”)
Amendment No: 1

Vendor No. 10559854,

Mod Requisition No. $7073,

AMENDMENT NO. 1

This amendment (“Amendment”) is made and entered into effective as of the ___day
of, + 2012 by and between the CITY OF CHICAGO City”), a
‘municipal corporation and home rule unit of local government existing under the Constitution of
the State of Illinois, acting through its Department of Fleet Management (“Department”), at
Chicago, Ilinois, and System Development Integration, LLC, (“Consultant”), a Delaware
limited liability company with its principal place of business at 33 West Monroe, Suite 400,
Chicago, Minois 60608.

Whereas, the City and Consultant have heretofore entered into an agreement for “Support
Services for Maximus Fleetfocus M4 System” for the Department of Fleet Management dated
the Ist day of July, 2008 (hereinafter referred to as the “Agreement”) whereby Consultant
provides certain software and services described in the Agreement (“Services”) therein set forth
for the City; and

The parties agree as follows:

‘TERMS AND CONDITIONS

1, Article 4, Duration of Agreement, Section 4.1, Term of Performance, is
amended to extend the Agreement through June 30, 2012 or until a new agreement for the
services is fully executed, whichever occurs first.

Article 5, Compensation, Section 5.3, Funding, is deleted and replaced in its
entirety with the following:

“The source of funds for payments under this Agreement is Fund Number 007-0100-040-
(0402035-0360. The maximum funding from fund number above is $1,123,528.00; the maximum
funding increase under this Amendment {rom the fund number 01 1-0100-0402035-0140-220140,
is $399,436.00. Payments under this Agreement must not exceed $1,522,964,00 (the “Maximum
Compensation”) without a written amendment in accordance with Section 10.3. Funding for this
Agreement is subject to the availability of funds and their appropriation by the City Council of
the City.”

3. Article 5, Compensation, is amended by adding a new Section 5.7, Invoices, as
follows:

“5.7 Invoices

‘This contract is subject to Centralized Invoice Processing ("CIP"), Invoices must be
submitted directly to the Comptroller's office by US Postal Service mail tothe following address:

INVOICES
City of Chicago, Office ofthe City Comptroller
33 N. LaSalle St, Room 700

Chicago, IL 60602

oR
Via email to: INVOICES @cityofchicago.org with the word INVOICE in the subject line,

All invoices must be signed, marked "original," and include the following information or

payment will be delayed:

‘© Invoice number and date
Contract/Purchase Order number
Blanket Release number (i applicable)
‘Vendor name and/or number
Remittance address
Name of City Department that ordered the goods or services
Name and phone number of your contact atthe ordering department
Invoice quantities, commodity codes, description of deliverable(s)
Amount due
Receipt number (provided by the ordering department after delivery of goods/services)

Invoice quantities, service description, unit of measure, pricing and/or catalog
information must correspond to the terms of the compensation schedule

If applicable, if invoicing Price LisvCatalog items, indicate Price ListCatalog number,
item number, Price LisvCatalog date, and Price LisvCetalog page number on the invoice.
Invoices for over-shipments or items with price/wage escalations will be rejected unless the
‘Contract includes a provision for such an adjustment.

Freight, handling and shipping costs are not to be invoiced; deliveries are to be made
FOB,, City of Chicago. As stated the City of Chicago is exempt from paying State of Hlinois
sales tax and Federal excise taxes on purchases,

If required, Subcontractor Payment Certification forms must be mailed to the department
that ordered the goods or services.”

.
|
|
'

4. Article 5, Compensation, is amended by adding a new Section 5.8, Taxes, as
follows:

“S8 Taxes

Federal Excise Tax does not apply to materials purchased by the City of Chicago by
virtue of Exemption Certificate No. 36-6005820 and State of Illinois Sales ‘Tax does not apply by
virtue of Exemption Certificate No. E9998-1874-07. Illinois Retailers Occupation Tax, Use Tax,
‘and Municipal Retailers Occupation Tax do not apply to materials or services purchased by the
City of Chicago by virtue of Statute. The price or prices quoted herein shall include all other
Federal and/or State, direct andlor indirect taxes which apply. The prices quoted herein shall
‘comply with all Federal laws and regulations.”

5. Article 7, Compliance with All Laws, Section 7.3, Inspector General is deleted
in its entirety and replaced with te following:

“73. Inspector General

Its the duty of any bidder, proposer or Consultant, all Subcontractors, every applicant
for certification of eligibility for a City contract or program, and all officers, directors, agents,
ppartners and employees of any bidder, proposer, Consultant, Subcontractor or such applicant 19
‘cooperate with the Inspector General or the Legislative Inspector General in any investigation or
hhearing, if applicable, undertaken pursuant to Chapters 2-56 or 2-55, respectively, of the
Municipal Code. Consultant understands and will abide by all provisions of Chapters 2-56 and 2-
535 of the Municipal Code. All subcontracts must inform Subcontractors of the provisions and
require understanding and compliance with them.”

6 Article 7, Compliance with All Laws, Section 7.6, Chicago “Living Wage”
Ordinance, subsection (¢) is deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following

“(© As of July 1, 2008, the Base Wage is $10.60 per hour. As of July 1, 2009, the
[Base Wage is $11.03 per hour. As of July 1, 2010 the Base Wage is $11.03 per hour. ‘As of July
1, 2011 the Base Wage is $11.18 per hour and each July 1 thereafter, the Base Wage will be
agjusted using the most recent federal poverty guidelines for a family of four as published
annually by the US. Department of Health and Human Services, to constitute the following: the
poverty guidelines for a family of four divided by 2000 hours or the curent base wage,
Whichever is higher. The currently applicable Base Wage is available from the Department of
Procurement Services. At all times during the term ofthis Agreement, Consultant and all ether
Performing Parties must pay the Base Wage (as adjusted in accordance with the above). Ifthe
payment of prevailing wages is required for Services done under this Agreement, and the
prevailing wages for Covered Employees are higher than the Base Wage, then Consultant and all
other Performing Parties must pay the prevailing wage rates”

7. _ Article 7, Compliance with All Laws is amended by adding a new Secti

7.12,
Office of Compliance as follows:

“742 Office of Compliance
“Itis the duty of any bidder, proposer, Consultant, Contractor, all Subcontractors, and
every applicant for certification of eligibility fora City Agreement or program, and all officers,
directors agents, partners and employees of any bidder, proposer, consultant or such applicant to
cooperate with the Office of Compliance in any investigation or audit pursuant to Chapter 2-26
of the Municipal Code of Chicago, The Consultant understands and will abide by all provisions
of Chapter 2-26 of the Municipal Code of Chicago. All subcontracts will inform Subcontractors
of this provision and require understanding and compliance with it.”

8 Article 7, Compliance with All Laws, is amended by adding a new Section 7.13,
Disclosure of Ownership Interest in Entities as follows:

“7.13. Disclosure of Ownership Interest in Entities

‘The Consultant will keep disclosure of ownership interests and other information current
‘as required by Section 2-154-020 of the Municipal Code of Chicago.”

9. Article 7, Compliance with All Laws, is amended by adding « new Section 7.14,
Incligibility to do Business with the City of Chicago as follows:

“7.14 Incligibility to do Business with the City of Chicago

Failure by the Consultant or any controlling person (as defined in Section 1-23-010 of the
Municipal Code of Chicago) thereof to maintain eligibility to do business with the City of
‘Chicago as required by Section 1-23-30 of the Municipal Code of Chicago shall be grounds for
termination of this Agreement.”

10. Article 7, Compliance with All Laws, Section 7.8 Prohibition on Certain
Contributions is amended by deleting paragraph 4, 5 and 6 and replacing them with the
following:

“Contractor agrees thatthe Identified Parties must not engage in any conduct whatsoever
4esigned to intentionally violate this provision or Mayoral Executive Order No. 11-4 orto entice,
director solicit others to intentionally violate this provision or Mayoral Executive Order No. 11-
4.

Contractor agrees that a violation of, non-compliance with, misrepresentation with
respect to, or breach of any covenant or warranty under this provision or violation of Mayoral
‘Executive Order No. 11-4 constitutes a breach and default under this Agreement, and under any
Other Contract for which no opportunity to cure will be granted. Such breach and default
entitles the City to all remedies (including without limitation termination for default) under this
Agreement, under Other Contract, at law and in equity. This provision amends any Other
Contract and supersedes any inconsistent provision contained therein.

If Contractor violates this provision or Mayoral Executive Order No. 11-4 prior to award
of the Agreement resulting from this specification, the Chief Procurement Officer may reject
Contractor's bid."
11. Article 10, General Conditions, Section 10.9, Independent Contractor, is
‘amended by adding a new subsection (c) as follows:

“(@) SHAKMAN

(@___ Consultant may be subject to the May 31, 2007 Order entitled “Agreed
Settlement Order and Accord” (the “Shakman Accord") and the August 16, 2007 “City of
Chicago Hiring Plan" (the “City Hiring Plan”) entered in Shakman v. Democratic
Organization of Cook County, Case No 69 C 2145 (United State District Court for the
Norther District of Mlinois). Among other things, the Shakman Accord and the

City Hiring Plan prohibit the City from hiring persons as governmental employees in
‘non-exempt positions on the basis of political reasons or factors,

(ii) __ No City employee may direct an individual to apply fora position with
‘Consultan, either as an employee or asa subcontractor. Nor may any City employee
direct Consultant to hire an individual as an employee or as a subcontractor. Consultant
‘mus follow its own hiring and contracting procedures, without being influenced by City
employees. The employees provided by Consultant under this Agreement are employees
ox subcontractors of Consultant, not employees of the City ofthe City of Chicago. This
‘Agreement isnot intended to and doesnot constitute, reat, give rise to, o otherwise
‘eeognize an employer-employee relationship of any kind between the employees or )
professionals provided by Consultant and the City

(ii) Consultant will not condition, base, or knowingly prejudice or affect any
term or aspect ofthe employment of any employee provided under this Agreement or
offer employment as an employee under this Agreement based upon or because of any
Political reason or factor, including, without limitation, any individual's politcal
alfiliation, membership in a political organization or party, politcal support or activity,
politcal financial contributions, promises of such political support, activity or financial |
contributions, or such individual's political sponsorship or recommendation. For
‘purposes ofthis Agreement, apolitical organization or party isan identifiable group or
tity that as as its primary purpose the support of or opposition to candidates for |
lected public office. Individual political activities are the activities of individual persons
in support of or in opposition to political organizations or parties or candidates for elected
public office.

(Gv) __In the event of any communication to Consultant by a City employee or
City official in violation of Section 10.9(¢Xii) above, or advocating a violation of Section
10.9(@Xili) above, Consultant will, as soon as is reasonably practicable, report such
communication t0 the Hiring Oversight Section of the City’s Office of the Inspector
General, and also to the head of the relevant City Department utilizing services provided
under this Agreement.”

12, Exhibit 1, Scope of Services, Section 1 (f) is amended by deleting “Labor /
Personne!” and replaced with “Labor / Personnel Data”

13. Exhibit 2, Schedule of Compensation is amended by adding the extension year
‘compensation in Attachment One.

5

|
|
|
|
|
14. Consultant has exccuted Special Conditions Regarding Minority and Women
Business Enterprise Commitment Schedules C-1, Schedule D-1, an online Economie Disclosure
‘Statement and Affidavit (EDS) Certificate of Filing, provided an Insurance Certificate, Affidavit
copies of which are attached o this Amendment as Exhibit 1, Exhibit 2, Exhibit and Exhibit 4
respectively and incorporated here by reference

|

‘The terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect except as modified inthis
Amendment.

Attachment One

EXHIBIT 2
SCHEDULE OF COMPENSATION

HOURLY HOURS!
RESOURCE RATE YEAR YEARI = YEAR2.- YEAR3-——TOTAL
Project Manager «$173.00 48 $8304.00 $8304.00 $8304.00 $24,912.00

Technical Resource $120.00 1776 $213,120.00 $213,120.00 $213,120.00 $639,360.00

Database Administrator $158.00 144 $22,752.00 $22,752.00 $22,752.00 $68,256.00

‘Total $732,528.00

Maximus FleetFocus M4 Annual

Software Maintenance Licensing ‘$127,000.00 $130,000.00 $134,000.00 $391,000.00

Total Compensation $371,176.00 $374,176.00 $378,176.00 $1,123,528.00
YEAR FOUR HOURS

RESOURCE HOURLYRATE YEAR TOTAL

Project Manager $173.00 $8,304.00

‘Technical Resource $120.00 1874 $224,880.00

Database Administrator $158.00 4 $22,752.00

‘Year Four Maximus FleetFocus M4 Annual Software Maintenance Licensing: $143,500.00

Total Compensation for Year Four $399,436.00
AMENDMENT SIGNATURE PAGE
Contract No.: 17063
‘Specification No.: 59775
Mod Requisition No.: 57073
\Vendor Name: System Development Integration, LLC.
Total Amount (Value): $1,522,964.00
Funds Chargeable: 007-0100-040-0402035-0360 ($1,123,528.00)
(011-0100-0402035-0140-220140 ($399,436.00)

‘System Development Integration, LLC.

‘This instrument was acknoweedged before me on this 7% day of Sephaber. 201g

by as President (or other authorized officer) and
cA a8 Secretary of SIT, LLC (Corporation

Name).

Notary Public Signature.

Commission Expires: _ 08/29/12

CITY,OF CHICAGO

n
Mayor Date \ Ny
Comptroller Date
The undersigned has determined, on behalf of the City of Chicago, with regard to this
Contract Amendment, that the circumstances said to necessitate the change in
performance were not reasonably foreseeable at the time the Agreement was signed, or

that the change is germane to the original Agreement as signed, or that the change
interest of the City of Chicago and is authorized by law.

|
|

Exhibit 1

Special Conditions Regarding

i
i
i
i
Ey
a
Sz
HE}
:
A
i

Department or ProcurgMeNt Services
CITY OF CHICAGO

REQUEST FOR WAIVER
To: Jamie L. Rhee
Chief Procurement Officer
FROM: Joseph Chan
Contracts Negotiator
DATE: March 8, 2012
User Department: Department of Fleet Management

Description of Services: Support Services for Maximus Fleetfocus M4 System
Contract Period: Blanket

‘Specification No. 59775
Contract No. 17063

Vendor: System Development integration, LLC
‘Amendment Amount $399,436.00

Waiver Amount: 16.9% MBE = $67,504.68

4.5% WBE = $17,974.62

‘COMPLIANCE WITH REQUIREMEN’
PROVIDED TIMELY NOTICE TO AN APPROPRIATE ASSOCIATION
REASON(S) PURSUANT TO ORDINANCE AND REGULATIONS FOR APPROVAL:

‘SOLICITED APPROPRIATE NUMBER OF MBE/WBE’s:
=> EXCESSIVELY COSTLY
TK IMPRACTICABLE

(On 516/11, Department of Revenue (DFM) requested to extend the contract by amendment with System
Development integration LLC. (SD!) to provide suppor services for the Maximus Fleetfocus Mé System,
SSDI is a project management, software implementation and software support entity based in Chicago,
inois and they were the only Respondent to the Request for Proposal dated October 10, 2007, SDI wil
[provide suppor services for the software and database from the Department of Fleet Management ste at
{he 1685 North Throop location. Based on the proprietary nature ofthe software and database, there are no
{areas for director indirect subcontracting o Cily of Chicago certifed MBE/WEBE firms. See SDI waiver

request letter dated 12/15/1 hand DFM concurrence letter dated 3/2/12 copies attached.

DepastMent oF FLEET AND FACILITY MANAGEMENT
CITY OF CHICAGO

ae: M2202
Te Jamie L. Rhe alpfror-
° ee

het Pcie cer alalia.

Department of Procurement Services

Ripe Cae

Commissioner
Department of Fleet and Facity Management

‘Subject: PO# 17063 - System Development integration, LLC (“SDI")
ifeationt FletFocus
Response ~ Request ora Waiver

From

The Department of Fleet and Facty Management has reviewed the request fra waver submited by System
Development integration, LLC (‘SO’) dated December 15, 2011, along wih e scope of sevice of the above
‘mentored tom agreement

‘SD Good Faith Effort ~ Request fr Qualicatons are being considered as suicent evidence to suppot lr
‘am to request a waiver (see atached). Based on he recent outreach efor the Deparment of Fleet and Facity
“Management (2FM) concurs that a waiver request shouldbe granted

Therefore itis being requested hat that above mentoned contract be extended wih a waiver forthe remaining
‘ecension period.

Please contact Kimberei Aaron + (312) 744-8546 for adsonalinformationlasistance,
‘Thank youn advance for your support

20 NORTH LASALLE STREET, SUITE 200, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS eoso2

jecember 15, 2011
David J. Reynolds. RECEIVED:
Commissioner
Department of Fleet Management EC 1620
ity of Chicago

1685N. Throop Street :
Chicago nos 60642 Takat p= —

Via Ema and Messenger

Re: Request for Waiver of WIMBE Compliance for the term of Amendment No. 1 to

Department of Fleet Management Contract No. 17063 for Support Services for
Maximus FleetFocus M4 System (the “Amendment")

‘Dear Commissioner Reynolds:

With this letter, System Development Integration, LLC ("SOM") respectuly requests that the
WIMBE compliance goals for the term of the ‘Amendment be waived for the following
reasons.

‘The suppor to be delivered during the term of the Amendment only requires the services of
‘one SDI resource, SOI's resource at Fleet for this project has been there for over a decade
Under the precursor and current conracts. He is uniquely familiar with Fleet, the FleetFocus
[MA System sofware and the overall project. SDI does not believe itis practical or desirable
for SOI or Fleet to replace him, or spit his duties, with WBE and/or MBE subcontractor
personnel unfamiliar with the history ofthe projec inorder to gain compliance ovar the term
of the Amendment. Moreover, SDI has already performed the services with the current
resource for neary hal of the term ofthe extension fo which the Amendment applies.

Lastly, SO! believes that good faith etforts as a pre-requisite to a waiver should not apply in
this case given the foregoing circumstances.

‘SDI appreciates your attention to this matter. If you should have any questions or require
‘additonal information, ploase do not hesitate to contact me,

Fax 312.580.7600
petty @ sdienterprises.com

cc: Jamie L Rhee, Chiet Procurement Officer
‘Joseph Chan, Procurement
‘Monica Jiminez, City Compliance
Michele Gambia, Fleet Contract Review

Exhibit 2

Online Economic Disclosure Statement (EDS) and Affidavit
Certificate of Filing,

Instructions:

Complete the online Economic Disclosure Statement (EDS) which includes a Disclosure of Retained Parties.
Please submit an electronically signed, one page EDS Certificate of Filing which validates that the EDS has
been filed. Additionally, the Municipal Code of Chicago requires the disclosure of Familial Relationships with
Elected City Officials and Department Heads. The web address to submit your EDS and Familial Relaionshipe

CITY OF CHICAGO ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT

EDS Number: 21330 Date of This Filing:03/22/2012 11:15 AM
Cerificate Printed on: 0322/2012 Original Filing Date:04/07/2011 10:49 AM
Disclosing Party: System Development Title Secretary/General Counsel
Integration, LLC

Filed by: Linda Petty

“Matter: Support Services for Maximus
Fleefeous M4 System

Applicant: System Development Integration,
LLC

Specification #: 59775,

Contract # 17063

‘The Economic Disclosure Statement referenced above has been electronically filed with
the City. Please provide a copy of this Certificate of Filing to your city contact with other
‘required documents pertaining to the Mater. For additional guidance as to when to provide this
Centfieate and other required documents, please follow instructions provided to you about the
‘Matter or consult with your City contact

A copy of the EDS may be viewed and printed by visiting
‘hups:/webapps.cityofchicago.org/EDSWeb and entering the EDS number into the EDS Seatch
Prior to contract award, the fling is accessible online only tothe disclosing party and the Cty,
‘buts still subject to the Illinois Freedom of Information Act. The fling is visible online tothe
public after contract award,

Exhibit 3

Insurance Certificate

AL SERVICES INSURAN RE]
Department of Fleet Management
‘Support Services for Maximus Fleet Focus Md System

Consultant mast provide and maintain at Consultants own expense, during the term of the
Agreement and time period following expiration if Consultant i tequted to return and pectormn any
of the Services or Additional Services under this Agreement, the insurance coverage and
‘equitements specified below, insuring all operations related to the Agreement

A. INSURANCE TO BE PROVIDED

1) Workers Compensation and Employers Liability

‘Workers Compensation Insurance, as prescribed by applicable law, covering all employees
who are to provide a service under this Agreement and Employers Liability coverage sith
Timits of not less than $$00,000 each accident, illness ot disease.

2) Commmexcial Genecal Liability (Primary and Urnbella)

Commercial General Lisbilty Insurance or equivalent with limits of not less than
$2,000,000 per occurrence for body injury, personal injury and property damage liability
Coverages must include the following: Ail premises and operations, products/completed
‘operations, separation of insureds, defense and contractual liability (with no limitation
endorsement). The City of Chicago is to be named as an additonal insured on a primary,
non-contributory basis for any liability arising directly or indzecty from the Services

Subcontractors performing Services for the Consultant must maintain limi of not less than
$1,000,000 withthe same terms herein.

3) Automobile Liability (Primary and Umbretts)

‘When any motor vehicles (owned, non-owned and hired) are used in connection with
Services to be performed, Consultant must provide Automobile Liability Insurance with
limits of not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence for bodily injury and property damage. The
City of Chicago isto be named as an additional insured on a primary. non-contabutory basis

4) Eto i

When any system technicians, cyber engineers, project managers or EDP professionals
including but not limited to system programmers, hardware and. software
AesignersConsultants or any other professional Consultants perform Services in connection
with this Agreement, Professional Liability Insurance covering acts, errors or omissions must
‘be maintained with limits of not less than $1,000,000. Coverage must include performance of
‘or failure to perform EDP. performance of or failure to perform other computer services and

failure of software product to perform the function for the purpose intended. When policies
se renewed or eplaced, the policy retroactive date must coincide with, or precede, stan of
Services onthe Agreement. A claims-made policy which is not renewed or replaced must
‘have an extended reporting period of two (2) yeas,

5) Valuable Papers

When any plans, designs, drawings, specifications, media, data, epons, records and other
documents are produced or used under this Agreement, Vaivable Papers Insurance must he
‘maintained in an amount to insure against any loss whatsoever and must have hinite
sufficient to pay forthe re-creation and reconstruction of such secords,

©) Propesy

Consultant is responsible forall loss or damage to City property at full replacement cost
including the Department of Fleet Management's equipment ce loss to any ciher City
property asa result of the Agreement.

Consultant is responsible forall loss or damage to personal property (including but aot
limited to materials, equipments, tools and supplies) owned, used, leased. or rented by
Consultant.

B. ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS

Consultant must furnish the City of Chicago, Department of Procurement Services, City Hal, Room
403, 121 North La Salle Sueet, Chicago, 1.60602, original Cerificate of Insurance, cr Such sinlan
evidence, to be in force on the date of this Agreement, and Renewal Certificates of insurance or
Such similar evidence. if the coverages have an expiration or renewal date occurring during the eo
‘of this Agreement, Consultant must submit evidence of insurance onthe City of Chicago insurarce
CCeruficate Form (copy attached as Exhibit or equivalent prior Agreement award. The receiptof
any certificate does not constitute agreement by the City that the itsurance requirement ithe
Agreement have been fully met or thatthe insurance policies indicated on the certificate are at
compliance with all Agreement requirements. The failure of the City to obtain cetificates o othey
insurance evidence from Consultant is not a waiver by the City of any requitements tor tae
Consultant to obsain and maintain the specified coverages. Consultant must advise al nsurereof the
‘Agreement provisions regarding insurance. Non- conforming insurance does not relieve Consultantof
‘he obligation to provide insurance as specified inthis Agreement. Non-fufillment of the insurance
conditions may constinte a violation ofthe Agreement, and the City rettns the right to suspend ths
‘Agreement until proper evidence of insurance is provided, or the Agreement may be termoated

The insurance must provide for 60 days prior written notice to be given to the City in the event
‘coverage is substantially changed, canceled or noa-renewed.

‘Any deductibles or seiinsured retentions on referenced insurance coverages must be borne by

Consultant.

Consultant hereby waives and agrees to require their insures to waive thei rights of subrogation
against the City of Chicago, its employees, elected officials. agents. or representatives,

‘The coverages and fimits furnished by Consultant in no way limit Consultant's liabilities and
Fesponsibiltes specified within the Agreement or by law.

‘Any insurance or self-insurance programs maintained by the City of Chicago do not contribute with
Insurance provided by Consultant under this Agreement

‘The required insurance 10 be carried is not limited by any limitations expressed in the
indemnification language in this Agreement or any limitation placed on the indemnity sn this
‘Agreement given asa matter of law,

If Consultant is a joint venture or limited liability company, the insurance policies must name the
Joint venture o limited liability company 3s a named insured

Consultant must require all Subcontractor to provide the insurance required inthis Agreement ot
Consultant may provide the coverages for Subcontractors. All Subcontractors ae subject tothe
same insurance requirements of Consultant unless otherwise specified in this Agreement

If Consultant or Subcontractors desire additional coverages, the panty desitn

the additional
coverages is responsible for the acquisition and cost.

‘The City of Chicago Risk Management Department mainsains the right to modify, delete, alter or
‘change these requirements

‘Ont CERTIFICATE OF LIABILITY INSURANCE “ae
"Ts GERTAICATE @ ISSUED A3 A WATTER OF FORMATION OMLY AND CONFERS WO RIGHTS UPON THE GERTFIGATE HOLDER Ta

CERIFICATE OES NOT AFFIIATIELY OM NEGATIVELY AMEND, EXTEND OR ALTER THE COVERAGE APFCROED UY ae Rates
SSELOW. TH CENTIICATE OF NGUIANCE DOES NOT CONSTITUTE A COMTRAGT BETWEEN THe 8UMG MSuREND) AoTateS

‘etme a emai oe peey eran aloe ne ee Ne a RT mee

cts hr neu of uch endoremend

ry Jason aeajr ‘|
Le fama roca [ens aston

‘Aconn 25201008) The ACORD name andloge a regard mart of ACORD
Exhibit 4

AMidavit

ryote Development late g achon, Lien) {

AFFIDAVIT

Detevere
edeclehilitsy (the “Affiant),
Inereby cots and defares as follows: Cov PA ncy

1, Neither the Affiant nor any Controlling Person (as defined below) of the Afiant has
ver been convicted or in custody, under parole or under any other non-custodial
‘supervision resulting from a conviction in a court of any jurisdiction for the commission
of a felony of any kind, or ofa criminal offense of whatever degree, involving;

(2) __bribery or attempted bribery, or its equivalent under any local, state or
federal law, of any public officer or employee of the City of Chicago (the "City") or of
any Sister Agency (as defined below); or

(b) theft, fraud, forgery, perjury, dishonesty or deceit, or attempted theft,
fraud, forgery, perjury, dishonesty or deceit, ots equivalent under any local, state or
federal law, against the City or any Sister Agency; ot

(©) conspiring to engage in any of the acts set forth in tems (a) or (b) of this
Section I

2. Neither the Affiant nor any Controlling Person of the Afiant has made in any civil or
criminal proceeding an admission of guilt of any of the conduct set forth in items (a)
‘through (0), inclusive, of Section 1 above, under circumstances where such admission of
‘Built isa matter of record but has not resulted in criminal prosecution for such conduct.

3. Neither the Affiant nor any Controlling Person of the Affiant is charged with or indicted
for any felony or criminal offense set forth in items (a) through (c), inclusive, of Section 1
above. Such ineligibility shall remain in effect until final adjudication is made with respect
to such felony or criminal offense,

‘As used herein, "Controlling Person” shall mean any person who (1) is an officer,
irector, limited liability company manager, managing member, partner, general partner ot
limited partner of any business entity; or 2) owns, directly or indirectly through one or
‘more intermediate ownership entities, more than 7.5% of the ownership interest in any
business entity; or (3) controls, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediate
‘ownership entities, the day-to-day management of any business entity. Indicia of control
include, without limitation: interlocking management or ownership; identity of interests
‘among family members; shared facilities and equipment; common use of employees: ot
‘organization of a business entity following the incligibility of a business entity under this
section, using substantially the same management, ownership or principals asthe ineligible
entity.

{
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|

City of Chicago; (2) Chicago Park District; (3) Chicago Transit Authority; (4)
‘Community College District No. 508, Cook County, Illinois; (5) Chicago Housing

|
|
As used herein, “Sister Agency” shall mean (1) the Board of Education of the |
‘Aur o(6) the Pale Bulding Commision of Clea |

‘Under penalty of perjury, the person signiiig below: (1) warrants that he/she is
‘authorized to execute this Affidavit on behalf of the Affiant, and (2) warrants that all |
certifications and statements contained in this Affidavit are true, accurate and complete as |
of the date hereof.

Seyctes Develepneiel (ute gra tiers, CCE

@rint or type namé of Affiant)

By:

(Sign here}

Davie A hapte |
(Print or type name of person signing) |

Pecded J ceo
Grint or type title oF person signing)

‘Signed and swom to before me on (date)_O 7/09///__, at
Cook County, Th nois (State).
Lu 2. Merman Notary abi

|
|
|
conan ots |
|
i
|
|
|
|
|
|
