Modification Summary Report

Contract (PO) Number: 126609
Modification Revision Number: 8

Specification Number: 819462902

Name of Contractor: SEAWAY BANK AND TRUST COMPANY
City Department: DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE

‘Title of Contract: CASHIERING SERVICES

‘Mod Rea Number ‘Mod Reason Description
AMEND PO:
‘T26609°CASHHERING

70490 TIME EXTENSION SERVICES SEAWAY BANK &

‘TRUST 92 DAY TIME
EXTENSION AND VENDOR
LIMITINCREASE

5/1/2002
End Date: 9/39/2012

Procurement Services Contact Person: CHARLITA FAIN

‘Please refer tothe DPS website for Contact information under "Doing Business With The City”.

‘Vendor Number: 1000340

Specification No.: 819462902
‘Contract/ PO No.: 726609
Requisition No. 70490
Vendor No.: 10003408

AMENDMENT NO. 4

‘This amendment (‘Amendment’) is made and entered into effective as of the 1 day of July
2012, by and between the CITY OF CHICAGO, a municipal corporation and home rule unit of
local government existing under the Constittion ofthe State of llinis, (‘City), and Seaway
Bank and Trust Company, a financial institution (‘Consultant’), City and Consultant are
sometimes collectively refered to herein as the “Parties.

‘This Amendment is to an existing agreement between the Parties for Consuitant's services
‘lating to Cashiering Services at Various Locations (‘Agreement’). The purpose of this
‘Amendment is to extend the term of the Agreement and to modty certain existing terms and
Conditions of the Agreement and to incorporate new terms and candtions due to changes in
laws andlor City polices since the date the Agreement was executed. The Amendment will
allow the Consuitant to continue to provide Services effective July 1, 2012 through September
30, 2012 or until a new Agreement is awarded, whichever occurs frst. Except as otherwise
indicated, capitalized terms in this Amendment have the same meaning as defined in the
‘Agreement

‘TERMS AND CONDITIONS
‘THE PARTIES agree as follows:

4. Article 4, Term of Performance, the City and the Consultant hereby agree to extend this
‘Agreement, fora period of three (3) months effective Juiy 1, 2012 through September 30,
2012, or und a new Agreement is awarded, whichever occurs fist.

2. Article 8, Compensation, Section 6.3, Funding is deleted in ts entirety and replaced
with the folowing:

“The source of funds for payments under this Agreemert is: Fund Number 012-0100-
0272020-0140-220140; and any other funds that may be appropriated. The maximum
Increased funding is $564,825.00 under this Amendment. Payments under this
‘Agreement must not exceed $13,484,065 .00 (the ‘Maximum Compensation’ without
‘written amendment in accordance with Section 10.3. Funding for this Agreement is
subject tothe availabilty of funds and their appropriation by the Cty Council ofthe Cty
Article 8, Compensation, is.

sriended by adding a new Section 56, Invoices as folows:

“5.6 Centralized Invoice Processing

Unless stated otherwise in the Detailed Specifications, this Contract is subject to
Centralized Involce Processing ("CIP"). Invoices must be submited directly to the
Comptroliers ofice by US Postal Service mailto the following address as
appropriate:

Invoices for any City department other than the Department of Aviation:
Invoices.

City of Chicago, Offce ofthe City Comptroler

33N. LaSalle St, Room 700

‘Chicago, It 60802

Jnvoices forthe Department of Aviation:
(Chicago Department of Aviation

10510 W. Zemke Blvd

P.0, Box 68142

Chicago, 60868

‘Ain: Finance Department

oR

Invoices for any department, including Aviation, may be submitted via ema to:
invoices @ctyotchicago.org with the word “INVOICE” in the subject line

17 include the folowing information

‘Al invoices must be signed, marked “original

fr payment wil be delayed:

+0 Invoice number and date
Contracy/Purchase Order number

Blanket Release number (f applicable)

Vendor name and/or number

Rematance adéress

[Name of Cty Department that ordered the goods or services

Name and phone number of your contact atthe ordering department

Invoice quantities, commodity codes, descripton of delverable(s)

‘Amount due

Receipt number (provided by the ordering department ater delivery of

‘900ds/services)

Invoice quantities, service description, unit of measure, pricing andior catalog

Information must correspond tothe terms of the Bid Page(s).

applicable, i invoicing Price ListCatalog tems, indicate Price ListCatalog number,
item number, Price ListCatalog date, and Price ListCatalog page number on the

Invoices for over-shipments or items with pricetwage escalations will be rejected
Unless the Contract includes a provision for such an adjustment.

2
Froight, handing and shipping costs are not o be invoiced; deliveries are to be made
F.OB,, City of Chicago. The City of Chicago is exempt from paying State of linois
‘ales tax and Federal excise taxes on purchase

4. Article 5, Compensation, is amended by adding anew Section 5.7, Taxes, as follows:
“67 Taxes

Federal Excise Tax does not apply to materials purchased by the City of Chicago by
virtue of Exemption Certificate No. 36-6005820 and State of llinois Sales Tax does,
not apply by vitue of Exemption Certificate No. E9998-1874-07. linois Retallers
‘Occupation Tax, Use Tax, and Municipal Retailers Occupation Tax do net apply to
‘materials or services purchased by the City of Chicago by virtue of Statute. The price
‘r prices quoted herein shall include all ther Federal andlor State, direct andlor
Indirect taxes which apply. The prices quoted herein shall comply with all Federal
laws and regulations."

5, Article 5, Compensation is amended to add new Section §8, Subcontractor Payments
28 follows:

"88 Subcontractor Payments

‘The Consultant willbe responsible fr reporting payments to all Subcontractors on a
‘monthly basis in the form of an electronic aust. Upon the first payment issued by
the City of Chicago tothe Consultant for services performed, onthe fist day of each
‘month and every month thereafter, e-mail andlor fax audit notifications wil be sent
‘ut to the Consuant with instructions to report payments that have been made in the
prior month to each Subcontractor. The reporting of payments to all Subcontractors
‘must be enlered into the Certfication and Compliance Monitoring System (C2), or
‘whatever reporting system is currently in place, on or before the fitleenth (15") day of
‘each month

‘Once the Consultant has reported payments made to each MBE and WBE, including
zero dollar amount payments, the MBE and WBE will receive an e-mail andor fax
"otication requesting them to lg onto the system and confirm payments received,
‘All monthy confirmations must be reported on or before the twenteth (20") day of
teach morth. Consuitant and Subcontractor reporting tothe C2 system must be
completed by the twenty-fih (25%) of each month or payments may be withheld.

‘Access to the Cartfication and Compliance Monitoring System (C2), which is a web
‘based reporting system, can be found at hitps/chicago mwdbe. com."

6, Article 7, Section 7.6(c), “Chicago ‘Living Wage’ Ordinance”, amended per
‘Amendment #3, Subsection (c)s deleted in ts entrety and replaced with the folowing:

7.6(¢)_-As of July 1, 2012, the Base Wage is $11.53 per hour. Each July 1 thereafter,
the Base Wage willbe adjusted using the most recent federal poverty guidelines fora
3
{amily of four as published annually by the U.S, Department of Health and Human
Services, to consttute the following: the poverty guidelines for a famiy of four divided by
2000 hours or the current base wage, whichever is higher. The currently applicable

Base Wage is avaiable from the Department of Procurement Services. At allimes
during the term of this Agreement, Consultant and all other Performing Parties must pay
the Base Wage (as adjusted in accordance withthe above). If the payment of prevaling
Wages is required for Services done under this Agreement, and the prevailing wages for
Covered Employees are higher than the Base Wage, then Consultant and all other +
Performing Parties must pay the prevailing wage rates,”

Article 7, “Compliance with All Laws, Section 7.1(d)[D], Prohtion on Certain
Contributions ~ Mayoral Executive Order No, 05-1 added via Addendum #1 is
eleted ints entirety and replaced withthe folowing:

* Prohibition on Certain Contributions — Mayoral Executive Order No, 2011-4

No Consuitant or any person or entity who directly or indirectly has an ownership
‘beneficial interest in Consutant of more than 7.5% (‘Owners"), spouses and
domestic partners of such Owners, Consultant's Subcontractors, any person or
entity who directly or indirectly has an ownership or beneficial interest in any
‘Subcontractor of more than 7.5% ("Sub-owners") and spouses and domestic
partners of such Sub-owners (Consultant and al the other preceding classes of
persons and entities are together, the “identiied Parties’), shall make 2
contribution of any amount tothe Mayor ofthe Cty of Chicago (the "Mayor’) or to
his political fundraising committee during () the bid or other solicitation process for
this Contract or Other Contract, inciuding while this Contractor Other Contract is
fenture (i) the term of this Contract or any Other Contract between City and
‘Consultant, andor (i) any period in which an extension ofthis Contract or Other
Contract wit the City is being sought or negotiated.

Consultant represents and warrants that since the date of public advertisement of
the speciation, request for qualifications, request for proposals or request for
information (or any combination of those requests) o,ifnot competitively
‘procured, from the date the City approached the Consultant or the date the
‘Consultant approached the City, as applicable, regarding the formulation ofthis,
Contract, no Identified Parties have made a contribution of any amount tothe
Mayor orto his political fundraising committee.

Consultant shallot: (a) coerce, compe! or intimidate ts employees to make a

‘contribution of any amount tothe Mayor orto the Mayor's poltical fundraising

‘committee; (b) reimburse ts employees for a contribution of any amount made to
‘4
‘he Mayor orto the Mayor's poitical fundraising commitie; or (c) bundle or solic
‘others to bundle contributions tothe Mayor oto his poltical fundraising
committee

‘The identified Parties must not engage in any conduct whatsoever designed to
intentional vilate this provision or Mayoral Executive Order No. 2011-4 or to
entice, drect or solicit others to intentionally violate this provision or Mayoral
Executive Order No. 2011-4

Violation of, non-compliance with, misrepresentaton with respect to, or breach of
‘any covenant or warranty under this provision or violation of Mayoral Execute
(Order No, 2011-6 constitutes a breach and default under this Contract and under
‘any Other Contract for which no opportunity to cure willbe granted. Such breach
{and default entitles the City to all remedies (Including without limitation termination
{or default) under this Contract, under Other Contract, at law and in equity, This
provision amends any Other Contract and supersedes any inconsistent provision
contained therein,

| Consultant violates this provision or Mayoral Executive Order No. 2011-4 prior to
‘award of the Contract resuting from this specication, the CPO may reject
Consultant's bid

For purposes of this provision:

“Other Contract’ means any agreement entered into between the Consultant and
the Cty that is () formed under the authority of MCC Ch. 2-82; (i) for the

Purchase, sale or lease of real or personal property; oi) for materials, supplies,
‘equipment or services which are approved andlor authorized by the City Council

“Contrbution’ means a ‘political contribution’ as defined in MCC Ch, 2-156, a8,
‘amended,

“Poitical fundraising committee" means a “poltical fundraising committee" as
efined in MCC Ch. 2-156, as amended”

Article 10, General Conditions, is hereby amended to delete in its entirety the
“Office of Compliance” added as Section 10.13 per Amendment #3.

‘Article 10, General Conditions, is amended to delete in its entiety Section 10.16,
“independent Consutant.” added per Amendment #3 and replace with the folowing
5

“1018

Independent Consultant

(a) This Contract is not intended to and does not constitute, create, give rise to,
or otherwise recognize a joint venture, partnership, corporation or other
formal business association or organization of any kind between Consuittant
{and the Ciy. The rights and the obligations ofthe parties are only those set
forth in this Contract. Consultant must perform under this Contract as an
independent Consultant and not as a representative, employee, agent, or
partner of the City,

(0) This Contract is between the City and an independent Consultant and, i
Consultant isan individual, nothing provided for under this Contract constitutes
or implies an employer-employee relationship such that

(i) The City wall not be liable under or by reason of this Contract for
the payment of any compensation award or damages. in
connection with the Consultant performing the Services required
Under this Contract.

(i) Consultant isnot entitled to membership in any City Pension
Fund, Group Medical Insurance Program, Group Dental Program,
Group Vision Care, Group Life Insurance Program, Deterred
Income Program, vacation, sick leave, extended sick leave, of any
‘other benefits ordinarily provided to individuals employed and pala
through the regular payrols of the City,

(li) The City is not required to deduct or withhold any taxes, FICA or
‘other deductions from any compensation provided to Consultant,

(©) SHAKMAN

© The City is subject to the May 31, 2007 Order entitled “Agreed
Settement Order and Accord” (the "Shakman Accord’) and the June 24,
2011 “City of Chicago Hiring Plan” (the “City Hiring Pian) entered in
‘Shakman v. Democratic Organization of Cook County, Case No 69 C
2145 (United State District Court for the Northem District of Ilinos)
‘Among other things, the Shakman Accord and the City Hiring Plan
‘prohibit the City from hiring persons as govemmental employees in non
‘exempt positions on the basis of poltical reasons or factors.

(i) Consultant is aware that Cty policy prohibits City employees from
to apply for a position with Consultant, either
‘subcontractor, and from directing Consultant to hire

Consultant must follow its own hiring and contracting procedures, without
being influenced by City employees, Any and all personnel provided by
Consultant under this Contract are employees or subcontractors of
Consultant, not employees of the City of Chicago. This Contract is not
intended to and does not constitute, create, give rise to, oF otherwise
recognize an employer-empioyee relationship of any kind between the
(Cty and any personnel provided by Constant.

(ii) Consultant will not condtion, base, or knowingly prejudice or
affect any term or aspect of the employment of any personnel provided
lunder this Contract, or offer employment to any individual to provide
‘services under this Contract, based upon or because of any poltical
reason or factor, including, without imitation, any individuals poltical
affiiation, membership in a poltical organization or party, political support
(activity, political financial contributions, promises of such poltical
‘support, activity or financial contributions, or such individuals poltical
‘sponsorship or recommendation. For purposes ofthis Contract, a poitical
‘organization or party is an identifiable group or entity that has as its
‘primary purpese the support of or opposition to candidates for elected
[Buble office. Individual political activites are the actives of individual
persons in support of orn opposition to political organizations or parties,
(or candidates for elected pubic office.

(iv) In the event of any communication to Consultant by @ City
‘employee or City offical in violation of Section 10,16(c)i) above, oF
advocating a violation of Section 10.16(c)l) above, Consultant will as
‘s00n as is reasonably practicable, report such communication to the
Hiring Oversight Section of the City’s Office ofthe Inspector General, and
also to the head of the relevant Cy Deparment utlizing services
Provided under this Agreement. Consuitant wil also cooperate with
inquites by IGO Hiring Oversight or the Shakman Monitor's Office related
to the contract"

10. Article 10, “General Conditions,” is amended by adding a new Section 10.17,
“Participation By Other Local Government Agencies,” as folows:

“10.17 Participation By Other Local Goverment Agencies:

(Other local government agencies may be eligible to participate in this
agreement pursuant to the terms and condtions of this Agreement i such
agencies are authorized, by law or their goveming bodies, to execute such
purchases, and if such authorization is alowed by the City of Chicago's Chief
Procurement Officer, and if such purchases have no net adverse effect on the
City of Chicago, and result in no diminished services from the Consulta to the
City’ user departments pursuant to such purchases. The Consultant’ licensing
fee for other local goverment agencies shall be the Consultants standard

7
1"

2

licensing fee in affect atthe time services are procured or as otherwise agreed
‘upon by the partes. Examples of such Local Government Agencies are: Board of
Education, Chicago Park District City Colleges of Chicago, Chicago Transit
‘Authority, Chicago Housing Authority, Chicago Board of Elections, Metropoltan
Pier and Exposition Authorty (McCormick Place, Navy Pier), and the Municipal
Courts. Said purchases shall be made upon the issuance of @ purchase order
directly from the Local Goverment Agency. The City will not be responsible for
payment of any amounts owed by any other Local Govemment Agencies, and
will have no labilty for the acts or omissions of any other Local Government
Agency.

‘The Consuttant has executed an or-iine Economic Disclosure Statement and Affdavit
Certificate of Fling, has provided completed Schedule C-1's and D-1 with MBEAVBE
‘complance plan for addtional funding, Insurance Certificates and Compensation
Schedule for the period from July 1, 2012 through September 30, 2012, copies of which
{are attached to this Agreement in Exhibt 1, Exhibit 2, Exhibt 3 and Exhibit 4 respectively,
‘and incorporated into this Agreement by reference. The Consultant warrants and
‘represents thal such documents are accurate as ofthe date of execution ofthis
Amecament

Execution ofthis Amendment by Consultant is duly authorized by Consultant, and the
signature(s) of each person signing on behalf of the Consultant have been made with
‘complete and full authority to commit the Consultant to all terms and conditions of this
‘Amendment, including each and every representation, certification, and warranty
Contained herein, or as may be require by the terms and conditions hereof

o
SSpecifeaton No: | _Br84s2902
‘Agreement (P.O) No~ 28800
‘Amendment Ne 4

Vendor No. 0003404,
Mod Requsiton No: 70490

Consultant Name: Seaway Bank & Trust Company

serene rica
oy tS Mee Seal
ts EVP 4 (oO
twee
sate t_ Lilinais
coutyot_ ack
Tes ratument wat sciowedoed tro, me on tie 2.3 aay ot Maly 2012 oy

as Front (or gia authorized ocr) and

Say Ea ue Cem
pasion Nae). cay a
nota Pte Sonatne Leen LCase = a et

; lu Gonanee ess 2h 28]
‘Commission Expires: caer

crrvoF cnteaso \
Le

_Amerdment at the crcumetanees sido necenaise the change n perfomance wars nol reasonably fesseabl at
‘the tine the Agreement was signed, oF thatthe change is germane tothe orginal Agreement as signed. or hat the
‘change order isin the best intrest of the City of Chicago and is authonzed bylaw.

@
Exhibit 1
Instructions for On-Line Economic Disclosure Statement

‘Complete the online Economic Disclosure Statement (EDS) which includes a Disclosure of
Retained Parties. Please submit an electronically signed, one page EDS Cerificate of Fing
which validates that the EDS has been fled. Additonally, the Municipal Code of Chicago
requires the disclosure of Familial Relationships with Elected City Officials and Deparment
Heads. The web address to submit your EDS and Familial Relationships Disclosure is:

lips:/iwebancsctvofchicago, om EDSWab,
‘STATEMENT

EDS Number: 31472 Date of This Filing: 05/09/2012 10:29 AM
Centficate Printed on: 07/23/2012 Original Filing Date:05/09/2012 10:29 AM

Disclosing Party: Seaway Bank and Trust _Title-SEVP & COO

‘Company
Filed by: Mr. Richard S. Abrams

“Matter: Cashiering Services
‘Applicant: Seaway Bank and Trust Company
‘Specification #: 85373

Contract #:

‘The Economic Disclosure Statement referenced above has been electronically filed with
the City. Please provide a copy of this Certificate of Filing to your city contact with other
required documents pertaining tothe Matter. For additional guidance as to when to provide this
Cerificate and other required documents, please follow instructions provided to you about the
Mater or consult with your City contact.

copy of the EDS may be viewed and printed by visiting
hitps:/webapps.cityfchicago.orp/EDSWeb and entering the EDS number into the EDS Search.
Prior to contract award, the filing is accessible online only to the disclosing party andthe City,
butis stl subject othe Hino Freedom of Information Act. The fling is visible online tothe
public after contract award.
Exhibit 2

SPECIAL CONDITIONS REGARDING MINORITY AND WOMEN OWNED BUSINESS
ENTERPRISE (MBEMWBE) COMMITMENT
"AND SCHEDULES.
‘SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MINORITY BUSINESS ENTERPRISE COMMITMENT

AND WOMEN BUSINESS ENTERPRISE COMMITMENT
(MBEMWBE Professional Services):

L and Torms

‘A. tis the policy of the Cty of Chicago that Local Businesses certified as Minorty Busnes Enterprises (MBE)
‘and Women Busines Enterprises (WBE) in accordance with Section 292-420 gt sea, of tre Municipal Cade
(f Chicago and Rogdations Governing Ceriicaton of Minority and Women-owned Businesses, and al ther
Regulations proullated under the sforemortioned sections ofthe Municipal Code sai have the maximum
‘opportunity to particpate lyn the performance of this agreement. Therefore, the contrac sal not
dszriminate gains any person or business onthe bass of face, color, national org ot sex, and sal take
affemative action to ensure that women and minority businesses shall ave the maim opportnty to
compete for and porter subcontracts for sup or services.

‘The Chiet Procurement Officer has established a goal of awarding not less than 25% of the anew
‘dolar value ofall nan -construction contracts to certified MBEs and 5% ofthe annual dollar value fall
‘non-construction contracts to certiied WES,

B._Falro to cary out the commitments and policies set forth herein shall consttut a material breach of the
coraract and may result inthe termination of the contactor such remedy asthe Cy of Chicago deems
appropriate.

According, the contactor commits to expend! atl the fallowing percentages ofthe total contract price
(incisive of any and all modifications and amendment) awarded, for onzact participation by MBES and
Wats:

MBE Contract Goal: 16.9
‘WBE Contract Goal: 4.5,

1. Thecommitment is met by the contractor's status a8 an MBE or WE, of by aon venture wth one or more
cerfied MBEs or WEES tat will perform work on the project. oF by subcontracting a portion ofthe work to
‘one or more MBES o* WBEs or by the purchase of materas used inthe performance of the contrat fom
‘one of more MBES ox WES or by the indect participation of MBs or WES in other aspects ofthe
contract’ business but no dolar of such indirect MBE or WBE participation sal be credited exe than
‘once against a contactors MBE or WBE commitment with respect to all onacs of such corracia), Fy
any combination f the foregoing.

Note: MBEAWBE participation goals ae separate and those businesses certified withthe City of
Chicago as both an MBE and WBE shall not be credited more than once against contractors MBE or
WBE commitment in the performance ofthe contract.

£ _Asnoted above the contractor may meet all or part ofthis commitment by contracting with MBES or WBES
{forthe provision of goods or services nt directly related to the performance ofthis corwact. However, in
‘determining the manner of MBEWBE participation, the contractor shal st consider invohverant cf
(MBESIWBES a ont vertu partners, subcontractors, and supplies of goods and services directly related to
the partormance of th contract. In appropriate cases the Chief Procuremert Ofior wil requ the
contactor to demonsrate he specific efforts undertaken to involve MBEs and WBES in crac partipation in
the performance of ths convact

FThecontractor aio may with prior approval of the Chit Procuremant Officer of designee, meet all oF pat
ofthis commitment through reds recelved pursuant to Section 292-530 of the Municipal Code of Chicago

forthe voluntary uso of MBEs or WBES in private sector projects
Paget of 10,
mi.

SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MBEWBE COMMITMENT

Definitions

“Minority Business Enterprise” or "MBE" moans a frm awarded cenficaton as a minority ames net
conerolled business in accordance wat Cy Ordinances and Regulations

"Women Business Enterprise” or “WBE” moans afm awarded corification as @ women owed and
corerolied busnessin accordance wah Cy Ordinances and Regains

“Directory” means the Director of Cet “Disachantaged Business Enterprises." “Mini Business
Enterprises" and "Women Business Ertorpse” mairtained and publiwad by te Crwract Complance
‘Agrinisrator. The Directory dente rms that have been cartfed as MBE and WEES, an includes both
the date ofthe last crification and the era of specaty in which they have ben certified. Contractors are
response for ventying the curentcerifiaton stats ofall proposed MBE and WBE fers

“Area of Specialty” moans the description of an MBE or WBE firms business which has been determined by
the Chiet Procurement Ocor to be most eflocuve ofthe MBE or WBE tres claimed specialty or experts.
Each MBEMWBE letter of cetfication contains @ description of the firm's Ares of Speci. This infomation
's ako contained in the Directory. Crelt toward ths contracts MBE and WBE participation goats shal be
limited othe partipation of firms performing within their Area of Specialty

NOTICE: The Department of Procurement Services does not make any represntaton conceming the
ably of any MBEMWBE to perform work within tei ea of Spocaty. Kise resporsblty
ofa contractors to determine the capability and capacity of MBESWBE to stisfactrily,
perform the work proposed

“Joint Venture” means an association of two oF more businesses to cary Ou a single business enterprise for
‘oft nd fr which purpose they combine ther expertise, property, capital effors, sil and knowledge
CContracters may develo join venture agreements a a indrument to provide parcipaton by MBEs and
WEES in coraract wank,

“Contract Compliance Administrator” means the offcer sppoirted pursuant to Section 2-92-490 ofthe
“Municipal Code of Chicago,

Joins Vertures

Bidders may develop joint venture agement san inst ument to provide particpation by certied MBES
‘and WBE in contract work. A joint venture seeking to be crite for MBE andr WBE paricipation ray
'be formed amneng MBE andlor WBE firms or batween an MBE andlor WBE fer and a pon-MBEMVBE fern,

‘join ventures eligible for MBE oe WBE crit the MBE/WBE Join verture partnr() share in the
‘ownership, control and management responsbites, rks and profits ofthe join venture, and are
Fesporsite for a clery defines portion of work tobe performed, in proportion wih the MBE andlor WBE
‘ownership percentage

Notice: The Cy requires thet, whenever a joint venture is proposed asthe prime contract, eachjoint
‘vereure partner must separately sign the proposal tothe City, in the pages captioned, TO BE EXECUTED BY
'A.CORPORATION; TO BE EXECUTED BY A PARTNERSHIP: andlor TO BE EXECUTED BY ASOLE
PROPRIETOR as applicable

Page 2 of 10
‘SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MBEMWBE COMMITMENT

‘Counting MBEMBE Participation Toward te Contre Goals

‘Thencksion of any MBE or WBE inthe contractors MBEMWBE Utzation Pan shal not conchisively
cesablis the contractors right to al MBEWBE credit fr that firms parcipation in the contact. Once an
[MBE cx WBE is doterined tobe eligible in accordance wa these rues, the total dol valve f the work
warded tothe MBE or WBE may be courted toward the MBE or WBE goal excer as inicated below

‘The Chit Procurement Officer reserves the right to deny or mit MBEAWBE cre to the contractor where
any MBE oc WE is found to be engage insubstantial subcontracting o passthrough activities wth others.
‘A contractor may count toward ts MBE and WBE goa only expenditures to firms that perform a
commercally uso tuncion, A fam corsidored to perform a commercialy useful funtion when its
respansbe for the performance ofa clearly defined and dnc element of work and is carrying out ts
responses by acualy performing maraging. and supewssing the work involved. To detrmine whether
{a frm performing @ commercially useful function, the Chief Procurement Oficer shal evaluate the amourt
of work subcontracted, nds practices, and other rlovar factors. The amount of MBEAWEE participation
‘reat shal be based upon an analysis by the Chief Procurement Officer ofthe specific duties that wil be
performed by the MBE or WEE. Each MBEWBE shall be expected to actualy perform a subsartal .e
‘mare then eighty-five percent (85%) portion of the work contamplatd fori by any subcontractor
‘groomer thvough te use of is own employees and equipment.

Requested feformtion may include. witout imitaton: (1) specie lXormation concern broker
feos ancir commons (2) intended sub-suppliers or other sources of goods andor services; and
(@ specie nancial or oer rsks to be assumed by the MBENWBE.

[MBES and WBE wo have boon cotiied as “brokers” shal no longer be Considered elie to participate for
Any consideration of MBE or WEE credit on conwacts awarded by the City in 1983 and thereafter, uni
further note.

‘A Joint venture may count toward ts MBE or WEE goal the dolar value ofthe actual work performed by the
MBE andor WEE jot venture partner with Ks own resources.

‘The Chiet Procurement Officer reserves the right to disallow goal credit for al, any portion, of work
performed by an MBE or WBE joint venturr based on evaluations of non-compliance with these Special
‘Conditions or any ther City, State andlor Federal regulation.

‘Regulations Governing Reduction or Waiver of MBENWBE Goals

“Tne following Roguatons set forth the standards to be used in determining whether or nota reduction or
\aner ofthe MBE/WBE commitment goals ofa particular coraract i appropiate a bidder or proposer
\oterines that tis unable to meet the MBE andlor WBE goal percertage on a Cy of Chicago contract. a
‘writen reques for the reduction or waiver ofthe commitment mist be included in the bid o propel

‘The writen request fr reduction or waiver fom the comment must be in the form ofa signed petition
for gant of reli rom the MBEAWBE percentages submitted onthe bidder/proposersleternead, and mist
demonsvate that all required efforts as set orth inthis document were taken to secure ebgible Mincrty and
Women Business Ertrpriss to meet the commitments. The Chief Procurement Oticer or designee shal
termine whether te request forthe reduction of waver wil be grarted

Page 3 ot 10
‘SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MBENVBE COMIMITMENT

Bladersiproposers willbe considered responsive to the terms and coneltions ofthese Regulations i
waiver request and proof of notification to an assist agency fs submitted a the time of bid/propasal
‘pening. Once the bcs have Beon opened, the lowest responsive and resposibe bidder so deamad by the
Chet Procurement Offes or authorized designee wil have no mare than Tourten (14) calendar days to
submit tothe Department of Procurement complete documentation that adequately ciresses the
Conditions for waver described herein. Proposers responding to Request for Proposals (RFPs) who have
been identified as a shor Iisted candidate andlor a prospective awardee will be given a designated ime
allowance, but no more than fourteen (14) calendar days to submit tothe Department of Procurement
‘Services complete documentation that adequately addresses the conditions for walvr described herein.
Respondents to Request for Information and or Qualifications (RFURFQs) deemed by the Chief
Procurement Officer or authorized designe tobe the most responsive and responsible shall submit
‘documentation that adequately addresses the conditions for waiver deseribed heroin during

.Falure to submit documentation sficient to support the waiver request wil cause the
‘idiproposa to be found non-responsive by the Chief Procurement Officer, andthe bidiproposal wil be
ejected. In such cases the reradis tobe taken by the Chit Procurement Officer. in his discretion, may
include, but are not kid to forfeiture of bid dopost: nogotaing wa the next owes bider/proposer or
re-sdverting the bidproposa. Al biddersproposors are encouragod to subratlequred documents tthe
time of bid opening to expedite the contact award

Directncirect Participation

ach of the folowing eloments must be present in order to determine whether of not sucha reduction or
waner is appropriate,

1. The Didkerproposer hes documented the ursuccestlslictation for ether subcontractors orJont
venture partners fa last 50% (or a leas fve when thee are more than eleven certified fms in
the commodity are) ofthe appropriate certified MBEMBE fs to perform any director inrect
work identified or related tothe advertised bi/proposal. Direct participation involves subcontracting
2 pation ofthe goodsservices specifically requtred # the bid/proposa. Indreet participation Is he
subcontracting of gooservices nt specifically elated tothe performance ofthis contract.
Documentation mast incude But not necessity imited to

8 Adetaied statement of efforts to identity and select portions of work identified inthe ble
solietatn for ssacortactng to certified MBEIWBE fers

1b. Allisting of al MBEWEE fms contacted that includes
(1) Nemes, acess and telephone numbers of MBEWBE firms solicted
2) Date and tine of contact;
@)—Maod of contact fwritten, telephone, facsimile, otc)

& Copies fketrs or any other evidence of maling hat substantiates outreach to MBEMWBE
Vendors that inca:

(1) Project identiication and ication:
(2) Casiicaton/cormodity of work items for which quotations wore sought
Date, tem an locaton fr acceptance of subcontractor bid proposals

age 40110
‘SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MBE/WBE COMMITMENT

(4) Detail statemont which summarizes ceset negotiations with appropriate MBEWWBE
fims for specie potion ofthe work and indicates wey negotiations were
‘rouccestul

(5) Alteration that goo fath ef have been demonsated by choosing
subcontracting opportunities likly to achieve MBE/WBE goals by not imposing any
limiting condtions which were not mandatory fo ll subcotracos; or denying the
benefits ordinary conferred on MBEAVBE subcontractors forth typeof work that
was solicited.

oR

2, Subcontractor participation wil be door excasvly costly whin the MBEWWBE sutcortractr
Proposal exceeds the average price quoted by more than twenty percent (20%). In order to establish
that a subcontract quote i excesvey costly, the bdder/proposer must provide the following
oration:

2 A detalles statement ofthe work dentifed for MBEWBE panicipation for which the
‘idder/proposer ase the MBEWBE quotes) were excessively costly (in exces of 20%
highe.

(1) Alsting of at potential subcontractors contacted for quotation on that work ter:
(2) Prices quotod forthe subcontract in question by al sich pont! subcontractors for
‘that work tom.

1b. Other documentation which demonsvates othe satisfaction ofthe Chie Procurement
(Officer tha the MBE/WBE proposals ere excessively cost, even though notin oxcas of 20%
higher thn the average price quoted. This dtermination wil be tase on factors that
‘nelade, But are no lite to the following:

(1) The Citys estimate forthe work under a specie subcontract

(2) The bidderiproposers own estimate for the work under the subcontract:

2) Araverage ofthe bona fide prees quoted forthe subconvact

4) —_Demonsrated increase in other contact costs & a rest of subcontracting tothe
MIWBE or other fm.

‘Rast Agency Participation

Every waiver andor reduction request mus include evidence that he bidded/proposer has provided timely
‘otice ofthe need for subcontractors to an appropriate association/asst agency represertatve ofthe
MBEWBE business commurity.

The notice requirement of his Section wil be satsted ia biddeeproposer contac atleast one of the
‘associations on tachment A when the prime contractor seek a waver or reduction inthe utizaton goa,
‘Attachment B provides the letter format that a prime contractor may use. Poot of notation pio to Bid
submital 9 cerifed mail receipt or facsimile ransmital receipt) wil be required for any bidproposal
submitted w be deemed responsive onthe date of bid opening, deemed approprat, the Chief
Procurement Orficer or Contract Compiiance Officer may contac the assist agency fr verfcaton of
notteation

Page 5 of 10
‘SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MBEWBE COMMITMENT

Impracteabiy
1, the Chet Procurement Officer detormines that lesser MBE andor WEE percentage standards

‘appropiate with respect oa particular contrat subject to competitive bidding prior tothe bid
selications for such contrac. id specifications shal include a siatoment of such revised stancard

2, The requirements st fort in these Roguitions shall not apply where the Chie Procurement Officer
determines prio tothe bi Slaton that MBEAWBE subcontractor participation is impracticable,

This may occur whenever the Chief Procurement Officer determines that for reasons of me. noed, industry
proces cr standards nt previously own by the Procuremant Department adranisrator, or such other
‘extreme crcumstances as may be deemed appropriate, such @ Waiver inthe bes interests ofthe Cty. Tis
“dotemination may be made in connection with a particular contact, whether before the contract let for
bid. during the bid or avard process, before or during negotiation of the contact, or during the perorrance
of the contact

For all naitcatons required to be made by bidders/proposars, Insitutions where the Chie Procurement
‘Oficer hes determined that time i of the esis, documented tlephone contact may be substituted for
leer contact

Procedure To Determine Bid Compliance

‘The flowing Schedules and described documents constitute the bidders MBE/WBE propos an must be
subi in accordance with the guidelines stated

lec ‘ Perform,
‘A Scheie C-1 exscited by the MBEMWBE (subcontractor or line Vertue partes) mast be submited by
the bidderpropaser foreach MBEWEE inckided on their Scheie D-1 and must accurately detail he work
to be performed by the MBE/WBE and the agreed rates and prices tobe paid

any fuly completed and exceed Sched C-1 i ot submited with the bid/proposa, must be received
by the Contract Adminstratr within tn (10) days of the biclproposal opening. (Al pos bidlproposat
submissions mast have orignal signatures on all Cocuments). Failure to subrnt a completed Schack
accordance with thi ection shal enti the City to deem the bidlproposal non-responsive and therefore
Feet the bid proposal

Letes of Coiication

‘Acopy ofeach proposed MBEAWBE fers current Lote of Cetfeation from the City of Chicago mst be
sulted withthe bidproposal.

{All eters of Crtfeaton sued by the Cy of Chicago include a statment ofthe MBENWVBE firms Ara of
Specialty. The MBENWBE fers scope of work, as detailed by thew SchaduleC-1, must conform to tele
stated Area of Speci.

Join Venture Agreements
the bidderstproposers MBE/WEE proposal includes the participation of an MBEWBE as jint venture on
ny ter ether a the bidderpropase a a a subcontractor, the bder/proposer must provide a copy othe

Joint venture agreernent.
Page of 10
SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MBE/WBE COMMITMENT.
tle 0-1: Aida of MBEAVEE r

Bloders must sur. togathr with the bid completed Schedule D-1 commiting them tothe uttzation of
ch listed MBEWBE fr

Except in cases where the bidder/proposer has submited areques for @ complete waiver of or variance from
the MBEWBE commitment in accordance with Section V. nein. the bidde/praposer must commit tothe

‘expenditure ofa specific dola amount of participation anda specific percentage ofthe total award amount
{or each MBEAVBE frm included on ther Sched O.1, The total dolar commitmert to proposed MBEs
‘rust atleast equal the MBE goal, and te total dolar commitment to proposed WES mus teas equal
the WBE goal. Biddors are resposibe fr calculating the dollar equivalent ofthe MBE and WBE goals 2s
Percentages of their total base bids orn the case of Term Agreements, as percentages ofthe total exited
sage

‘Allcommtmets made by the bidders Schedule D-1 must conform to those presentod in the submited
‘Schedule C-1 If Schedule C-1is submited afer the bic opening se Section VI... above}, the
bicderproposer may submit a revived Schedule D-1 feec.aed and notarized) to conform with the Schedul
[C-1_ Except in cases where substancal and documented justification is provided, biddersproposers wil not
De slowed to reduce the dolar commitment mado to any MBE or WBE in order to achieve conformity
between the Schedules C-1 and D-1

‘Reporting Requirements During The Term of The Contract

‘The Contractor shall not str than tht (30) days fom the award ofa contact by the City, exacite formal

corects or purchase orders wit the MBES and WBEsinclued in ther approved MBEMWBE Unization Plan.
‘Those writen agreements sal be made svalable tothe Chief Procurement Offer upon request

Inthe case of onetime procurements of supplies with either single r multiple dotveries to be performed in
tes than one year from the date of contract award, an "MBEWEE tization Report” indleating fal MBE
and WBE payments sal be submited directly tothe Department of Procurement Services so aso assure

receipt ether atthe same time, or before the using Department receives the convactors final voice, Final
payments may be held uti the Utiization Reports have been recived

NOTICE: Do not submit invoices with "MBEWBE Uullzation Reports.”

During the tarm of al other contracts, the contractor shal submit regular "MBE/WBE Utiization Reports” a
Copy of wich s attached. The frequency with which these reports are to be submited will be detrmined
byte Chat rcurert x, bt ca wl epors be requ le cn tan cra aay bss

"MBEMWBE Unitzation Reports are tobe submited directly to: Department of Procurement Sorvics,
(ce of Vertor Relations City Hal, Room 403, 121 N. LaSalle Sweet. Chicago, ino 60602.

‘The Contact Complance Administrator sal be ented to examine, on ive (5) business days notice, the
contactors books and records including wihou limitation payrot records, tax reums and records. and
‘books of acount to determine whether the conractr iin compan with is commitment 19 MBEAWE
paricipaton and the status of ny MBE or WBE performing any portion of the corract. Suc rights ae in
‘addition to any ther aud inspection rg contained in the conwac.

Page 7 of 10
SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MBE/WBE COMMITMENT
(MBEWBE Substutions

‘Changes bythe contractor of the commitments eater cote inthe Sched 0-1 are prohibited. In some
‘cases, however, I may become necesary to substtute a new MBE or WBE in order to scully ful the
MBEAVBE requrement,

‘The contractor must natty the Chet Procurement Offcer immessatly in wrting ofthe necesty to reduce
‘or terminate an MBENBE subcontract and to utilize a subsite frm for some phase of work. The
coreractors notification should include the reason fr the substitution reques. aswell as, the name, across
‘and principal ofcial othe subsstute MBEWBE and the dolar value and scope of work of the subcontract.
‘Atuched should be al the equiste MBEAWE afidavts and documents, as enumerated above in Section VI
above, “Procedure tp Determine Bid Compliance”

‘The City will nt approve extra payment fr escalated coss incurred by the contactor when a substitution of
subcontractors becomes necessary forte contractor inorder to comply wth MBEAWBE contact
requremerts.

‘Aer award of contrac, no reli ofthe MBEMWBE requirements wil be grated by the City exceptin
‘exceptional circumstances. Requests fr complete or partial waver ofthe MBEMWBE requirement ofthis
‘contract must be mace in writing stating al details ofthe request. the crcumstances, a ary adktonsl
relevant information. The request must be accompanied by a record alerts taken by the contractor to
locate specific firms, solict MBE/WBE ids, seck asistance rom technical assstance agencies, ec. as
‘cutined above nthe section V. above, erinled "Requstions Governing Recktions To or Waiver of
‘MIBEBE Goat”

‘Non-Compliance and Damages

‘The following constttes a material breach of ths contact and shall entitle the ity to declare a default
terminate the contract and exercise those remedies provided for inthe contact. law or in equity

(1) faarw to sty the MBE/WBE percentages required by the contract: an

(2) the contractor or subcontractor is dsquaifed as an MBE or WEE, and such stats was
factor in contract award, and was misrepresented by the contractor

Inthe event thet the contractor i termined not to have baon involved in any miepresentation of the
‘satus ofthe disqualifted subcontractor oF supplier, the contractor shal sek to discharge the isquaified
suubcontrecor cr supplier, upon prope notification tothe Chet Procurement Ofcer andlor Contract
Compliance Adminstrator and make every effor to dent and engage a qualified MBE or WBE ass
replcoment. Futhermere, continued elighily to enter into future contracting arangements with the Cy
‘may be Joopardized asa result f noncompliance. Paymerts due to the contactor may be wathhald urti
Corrective action i taken

‘Aspiration

In the event that a contractor has not compiled with the contractual MBE/WBE percentages in its Schedule
, underulizaton of MBESWEBEs shal ente the affected MBE/WBE to recover rom the coractr
damages sffered by such entity a a result of being underutized: provided, however, that this provision
shal no apply tothe extere such underuzation occurs pursuant to 8 waiver oF subsiuton approved by
the Ciy, The Ordinance and contracts subject thereto provide that any csputes between the contactor and

Page 8010
SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MBE/AWBE COMMITMENT

such affected MBESWBES regarding damages sal be rested by bing abiration before an independent
arbitrator other than the Ciy, with reasonable expenses, inciucng attomeys foes, being recoverable by @
provaling MBEAWBE in cordance with tee regulators. This provision fs ended forthe benefit of ary
MBEIWBE affected by undecaitzation an gras Suen entty speci third party beneficiary rights. Any
rights conferred by ths regulation ae non-waivable and take precodence over ary agreement to the
conwar, inching bu net lmted to tose contained ine subcontract suborder, of communicated orally
‘bern a contractor and an MBEWBE,

8. AN MBEAWBE desinng to arirate sal contact the contractor in wring to init the arbitratve process.
Except as otherwise apred to in writing by the affected partes subject tothe imtation contained in the ast
sentence ofthe previous paragraph, Section X. A above, within tn (10) day ofthe contacter recelving
otfcaton ofthe inert abirate from the MBEAWBE the above-described dlsputes shal be arbitrate in
nccordance wth the Commereal Arbiration Ries ofthe American Artration Asacation CARAT), a nat
for-prott agency, wth an ofc at 225 North Michigan Avenue, Suite 2527, Chicago, linos 60601-7601
[Pnone: (312) 616-6560; Fax: (312) 819-0404). Al such arbizations sha be ntiated by the MBEAVEE
fling demand fr arbivation wih the AAA; shall be conducted by the AAA: and held in Chicago lino.

C.—Allfoos of the arbitrator are the initial responsibilty ofthe MBEIWBE; prove, however, thatthe arbitrator
's authorized to award resonable experss Inching ttomey's and eblvator Fes, es domages to a
Prevaling MBEWBE

1, The MBE/WBE must sen the City 8 copy ofthe “Demand fo Arbitration” within ton (10) days afr itis fled
Wit the AAA. The MBEWBE a80 mast send the City copy of the delson ofthe arbitrator wit ten (10)
days of receiving such decision. Judgment upon the award rendered by the arbitrator may be ertared in
any court of competent scion,

XL, Record Keeping
The Conwactr shal maiean records of al elvan data with respect to the wztion of MBESWEES,
retaining these records for 2 period of atleast the years ater final acceptance ofthe work, Full accesso
these record nal be granted tothe iy of Chicago, Federal or State authors in his project. the US.
Department of hice, oF any dy authorized represertatves hereof

2 Information Sources

Smal busines guarantees loars: surety bond guarantees; B (a) certification:

USS. Small Business Administration ‘S.B.A - Bond Guarantee Program
‘500 W. Madison Stoo, Suite 1250 Surety Bonds
Chicago, ino’ 60661 500 West Madison, Sute 1250
Genera information Chicago, itinois 60681
(G12) 353-4528 Aitenion: Carole Hae

212) 353-4003,

‘SBA. - Procurement Assistance
500 West Madison Suite 1250,

Chicago, ino 60661

‘tention: Robert P. Murphy, Ara Regional Adminisrator
(12 353.7381

Pape 8 of 10
SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MBENWBE COMMITMENT

Project information and general MBEMWVBE information:

Cty of Chicago City of Chicago
‘Department of Procurement ‘Department of Procurement
Ofc of Vendor Relations CCoraract Administration Division
Cy Hal- Room 403 Gy Hall - Room 403

Chicago, tines 60802 Chicago, tins 60802
‘enton

(12) 744.7655

Directory of Cerified Disadvartaged, Minarty and Women Business Entorprisas

(G12) 744.4909
General information. Dapartment of Procurement Services: www ctyotchicago ry/purcasing

Information on MBEAVBE avast inthe manufacturing, sales o supplies. and related kt (drect
assizance rom 42 regional afates located throughout the USS):

[National Minority Suppliers Chicago Minority Business
Development Counc Inc. Development Councit

1040 Avenue ofthe Amereas,2* Noor 1 fas Wacker Drive

Now York, New York 10018 Suto 1200

Attention: Hart R. Michel Chicago, tina's 60601

(12) 944.2430 ‘Atterion: Tracye Smith, Exscutive Director

Phone #: (312) 755-8880
Fax #: (912) 755-8890

ae Pir Sr, 0780)

Page 10010
ATTACHMENT A ~ ASSIST AGENCY

AFRICAN AMERICAN CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION
3901 §. STATE

CHICAGO. 60883

PHONE # (312) 915.5860

FAX (312) 867-9910

WEB” NONE

EMAL: OMARAACA@HOTMAIL COM

ATIN: OMAR SHAREEF, PRESIDENT

ASIAN AMERICAN ALLIANCE
222 W. CERMAK ROAD
‘Sire 0

CHICAGO, 60816

PHONE # (312) 298-1249
Fax # (312) 208-642

wee:

EMAIL

‘CTAKADAGASANAMERICANALLIANCE.COM
TIN: MITCH SCHNEIDER, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

[ASSOCIATION OF ASIAN CONSTRUCTION
ENTERPRISES

1353 N.OGDEN AVENUE
‘GhicAGo, 60a?
PHONE #12) 3.0748
FAX (312) 606-1788
WEB! NONE

IRTIN" PERRY NAKAGH,

RESIDENT

BLACK CONTRACTORS UNITED
ow 70" STREET

SUITE 200,

CHICAGO, 20620

PHONE f (773) 483-4000

FAK (773) 4854150,

WEB: WAVLBLACKCONTRACTORS UNITED COM
[STIN: FLORENGE COK. EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

GHICAGO MINORITY BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
‘COUNCIL, INC.

EAST WACKER ORVE

‘SUITE 1200

‘GuICAGO, i. 0601

PHONE #312) 755.8880

FAK # (312) 7552890
WeB- wiw.cuanc.ona
[ATTN TRACYE SMITH. EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

(CHICAGO URBAN LEAGUE
229. STATE STREET

it Foon

HicaGO, i goso4

PHONE # (312) 692-0706 EXT, 256,

FAK: (1) 682076:

‘WES: WHI.CUL-CHICAGO ORG

EMAL: JARCHIE@CUL-CHIGAGO.ORG
[ATTN JOAN ARCHIE. DIRECTOR OF
EMPLOYMENT, COUNSELING 8 TRARING

COSMOPOLITAN CHAMBER QF COMMERCE
550 WEST LAKE ST, SUITE 5" FLOOR
‘CHICAGO, 00864

PHONE & 12) 7960212

FAK: (312) 2949807

‘WEB: AWW. COHAMBER. ORG

[ATTN GLORIA BELL, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

FEDERATION OF WOMEN CONTRACTORS
‘5650 & ARCHER AVENUE

CHICAGO. e053

HONE #312) 360-1122

Fax tz) 3600238

WEB: MMWLFWCCHICAGO.coM

ATTN: BETH DORIA, EXE CUTIVE DIRECTOR

HISPANIC AMERICAN CONTRACTORS INDUSTRY
ASSOCIATION (HACIA)

901 WEST JACKSON BOULEVARD

SUITE 205,

(CHICAGO, 1.60807

PHONE # (312) 655-5910

Fax (312) 6665002

‘WEB: YW HACIAWORKS ORG

EWAL: MAILTO-CSATOYHAGIA WORKS ORG
[RVIN: CESAR A SANTOY. EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

LATIN AMERICAN CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
3612 WEST FULLERTON AVENUE

GHICAGO, 1 80647

HONE w: (773) 252-5211

FAX (773) 2527065

wes.
‘WAMWLATINAMERICANCHAMBEROFCOMMERGE.C
Fry

EMAL:

[ATIN" ANTHONY GULLEN, DIRECTOR

Page’ of2
ILINOIS HISPANIC CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
(FORMERLY MACS)

SSN LASALLE STREET

Suite 1720

CHICAGO, k 60802

PHONE #" G2) 3723010

FAK # (312) 3723403.

wee’

WHI MACCRUSINESS COM
ATTN: JUAN OCHOA PRESIDENT & CEO

NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF WOMEN BUSINESS
Sanens

CHICAGO CHAPTER

$308 WELLS STREET

Sunre t10

CHICAGO, 1.60808

PHONE 8 (312) 322.0900

FAK (312) 4612238

WED: WM NAWBOcHECAGO ORG
EMAIL INEO@NANBOGHIGAGO.COM
ATTN. GLAR GREGORE, PRESIDENT

RAINBOWPUSH COAL

S00'e 80" STREET
CHICAGO, i 6061s

PHONE #073) 2862728

FAK (773) 2862751

‘WEB: IAM RAINBOINPUSH ORG

[ATIN. DONNA GAINES, DEPUTY DIRECTOR TRADE
‘BUREAU

‘SUBURBAN BLACK CONTRACTORS
‘48, DO0GE AVENUE

‘SUTE 347

EVANSTON. IL azo

PHONE # (847) 3508988

FAX (647) 3595967

‘WED: NONE

[ATIN: LARRY BULLOCK, PRESIDENT

ev 31708

‘SUCCESSFUL INDEPENDENT NETWORK
[ASSOCIATION (SIN).

‘STREET ADDRESS! ALING ADDRESS:
2100W. WASHINGTON P.O. BOX #113.
CHICAGO. 1 6ost2 (CHICAGO, 1.80608
PHONE # (512) 850-1605

FAX (312) 860-1005

WES: NONE

[ATIN: DIANE JONES. PRESIDENT

[ATTN ARNETTE KING, GENERAL MANAGER

TRITON COLLEGE
‘SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CENTER

2000 FIFTH AVENUE.

Roow R201

RIVER GROVE. i. 60171

PHONE wos) 4560300 ExT. 3714

FAX: (708) 5833114

WEB. WHY. TRITON Eu

EMAL: GRARNES@TRITON.EDU

[ATTN MARY AVN OLSON, DEAN OF WORKFORCE:
DEVELOPMENT

UPTOWN CENTER HULL HOUSE
44520 N. BEACON STREET

‘Geieago. 1 eos40.

PHONE #773) 861-3800

FAX # (773) 581-3507

WEB: WAILERULLHOUSE ORGIEDU ATM.
Era

[ATIN: CURT ROESCHLEY. DIRECTOR
‘SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT

WOMEN'S BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CENTER
S'SOUTH MICHIGAN AVENUE.

‘surTe 400

CHICAGO, n. 60603

HOME #312) 0533477

FAX (312) 8530145

WEB: WiMtoLWBC. ORG

Emat MALT QHRATNER@WEDC,ORG
ATIN: HEY RATNER, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

THE CHICAGO AREA GAY & LESBIAN CHAMBER OF
Commerce

$210 W. ROSEDALE

CHICAGO, 1 60060

PHONE #: (773) 303-0167

Face 73 2030168

B: HITP/AWWYNGACHAMBER. ORGY
Barty A FLYNN. EXECUTIVE DREETOR

Page2 of 2
[RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED

Description:
(Assis Agoney Name and Adcros)

Dex.

(BiesserPropose Intends to submit a bid/proposa in response to the above referenced specification
‘with he Cay of Chizago. Bids are due dvertiod spoctiation with the City of Chicago,

‘The folowing areas have been identi for subcontracting oppomunities on both a direct and indirect bass

(Our efoto ident potential subcontractors have not been succesful inorder to meet the
Dsacvantaced/Ninonty/Woren Business Enterprise contract goal Due to the inability to identity an appropriate
[DBEMMBEAWBE fem certified by the Cty of Chicago to participate as a subcontractor or joint venwure partner,
‘request forthe waiver of the coniract goals willbe submited. Ifyou se aware ofsuch afm. plese contact

—_|

within (10) ton working days of capt of this ter

a

Under the City of Chicago's MBEMWBE/DBE Ordinance, your apincy i entitled to comment upon th waiver request
to the Cty of Chicago. Wren comments may be directed within teen (15) working days of your receipt of ths
eer to
Monica Cardenas, Deputy Procurement Oficer
Department of Procurement Services
iy of Chicago
121 Non La Sale Stroot, Room 403
CCheago, ines 60602
you wish to discuss ths attr, ploase contact the undersigned at__

Sincaroty,

Page ott
[SCHEDULE B: Atidavit of Joint Verture (MBEMWBE)

‘This form need not be submitted ial jint ventures are MBEs andor WES, tn such a case, owover 8 written
Joint veruze agreement among the MBE ard WBE ventures must be submited. In all -roposed joint vertures. each
"MBE andor WE voreuror mus submit a copy of thelr current Letter of Catfeation,

Al Irformaton Requested by ths Schadule must Be Answered in tho Spaces Provided. Do Not Refer to Your Joint
Venture Agreement Except t Expand on Answers Provided on this Form. Adora Space ls Required. Adtional
Sheets Mey Be Atached,

1 Name otJint venture:
‘Ares of joint vertu

Phone numba of jot venture

| _Kdenity each non-MBEAWBE venture)
Nar of Fie
Adres:
Phone:
‘Contact parson for maton concerning MIEWEE compliance!

lL deity each MBE/WBE verte
Namo FF:
Aocress
Phone:
Contact person for mattas Concerning MBEIWBE complanc:

1V, _Deszibe the role) of the MBE andor WEE venture nthe joint verre:

V. Attach 9 copy ofthe jl wee agreement. In order to demonstrate the MBE andor WBE ventures snare
inthe ownership, control, managerert responsibilities, rsks and profits ofthe oir verte, the proposed
Join venture aroement must include spociic details related to: (1) the contributions of capa and
‘equipment; (2) work tes to be performed by the MBE/WBE's own forces: (3) work ites to be performed
Lnder the supension othe MBE/WBE verter and (4) the commitmant of management, super vsory and
‘operative personnel employed by the MBE/WBE to be dedicated tothe performance of the project.

Vi. Qumershio of the Joint Venture
‘A. What are the percontge() of MBEAWEE ownership ofthe jolt verre?
MBEWBE ownership percentages)
[Non-MBEMWBE ownership percentage)

8, Specify MBEWBE percentages foreach f the following (provide narrative descriptions and other detail as
applicable:

1. Profi and os sharing

2. Capital contributions
Page tof 5
vu.

(2 Dole amounts of intial eonribtion:

(©) Dollar amounts of anticipated on-going conibutions:

3. Cantar eaipmer Sect Yes uy and aie of equpents be provdeby
‘ach vanturer)

4. Other applicable ownership interes, including ownership options or other agreements which rerict
lit ownership andlor covert

5. Provide copies o al writen agreements between ventures concerning ths projct.

6. ldentiy each current Cty of Chicago contract and each contract completed uring te pas two (2)
yan) by 2 joint venture of two or more firms participating in ts joie verre

Coreoto ane Participation in tho Joint Venture. Identity by name and fer those individ who ae, ot
willbe, responsible for, and have the authrty o engage inthe folowing management functions and paicy
decisions. {Indicate any imitations other authority sich a dolor limes and co-sgnatry requirements

‘A. Joint venture check signing

18, _Athonty to enter contracts on behalf ofthe joint wenture:

C. Signing. co-sining andlor cotoralzng fans:

D. aquisition of ines of crit:

Page 2015
vu.

Affidavit of Joint Venture (MBE/WBE)

Acquistion and indemnification of payment and peformance bonds:

F. Negouating nd sing labor agreements:

6. Management of contrecpecermance, (kentity by name and fer ot
1. Supervision of fld operations:
2 Major purchases

T Eaimating.

 Thgineerng

Financial Controls of ire venture:
‘A. Which fr andior individual wl be resporsibe for kooping the books of accoure?

B. —_detity the managing partner # if any, and describe the means and measure of thelr compansation

©. What authorty does each verturer have to commit or obligate tho other to insurance and banding
‘companies, francing insitutions, suppliers, subconsacto, andlor other parties panicpating inthe
performance of ths contacto the werk ofthis projet?

State the approximate numer of operative personne by trade) needed to perform tho joint venture’ work
Under this contract. Indicate whether they will be employees of the non-MBEMWBE frm, the MBEIWE fe,
‘or the joint vertu,

Page 08S
Schedule B: Affidavit of Joint Venture (MBE/WBE)

Trade [Non-MBEAVBE Fim MBSE ‘bint Ventre
roe ume tre

fa personne! propose fr this project wil be employees ofthe joint veraur:
‘A, re any proposed joint venture employees currently employed by exher venture’?
Currently employed by nor-MBENWBE (number) ___ Employed by MBEWVBE ___

Identity by name and fem te ndvil who wil be responsioe for hiring join venture employees:

C—_ Which venture wi be responsible for the preparation of joint venture poy:

Please state any material fats of additonal information pertinent to the control and sructure ofthis joint

Page 4015
Schedule B: Affidavit of Joint Venture (MBEAWBE)
“Te undersignec arms thatthe foregoing atoments are correct and include ll ratarial information necessay to
‘identity and explain the trms and operations of ou joint worture and the intended participation of each venture in
the undertaking. Further, the undersigned covenant and agre to provide to the City current complete an accurate
Information roaring atu jont verte work and the payment therefore, and any proposed changes in any
roVson ofthe jin venture agreement. andto permit the auc and examination f the books, records are files of
the jont verture, or those of each venturer relevant othe joint venture by authorized representatives of the City or
the Federal funding agency.

‘Any material mizepresentation wil be gounds for terminating any contact wich may be awarded and fr initiating
‘clon under federal or tat laws concering fale statements

‘Note: afer ing his Sched B and before the Completion on the joint verture's work on the project
‘theres ay change in the information submitted, the jin venture must inform: the City of Chicag. either
rectly or rough the prime contractor if the joint verte a subcontacto

‘Name of WBEWBE Paine Frm ‘ame of Non AASEWIBE Pars Firm
Spare a Ae Sepa of Mae

Tore and Tite of Ane Tome and Tle of Aon
ae Dae
Onms__cayot__.20__, the above ne fins

Personally appeared and, known to me be the persons described in the foregoing Afidavt, acknowledged
‘that toy execuod the same inthe capacty therein stated ad forthe
Purpose therein contained.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF. hereunto set my hand and officiel.
Signare of Notary Public

My Commission Expires:
(AL)

Page SoS
SCHEDULE D-1
Aida of MBENWBE Goa! Implarrvation Pan

Prin name: Cash eras, SEP ICES

sate ¢_THLiner S

County (Cty) of__Cook,

| HEREBY DECLARE AND AFFIRM thot | am duly authorized representative ot

Senwo( Bak and Test Coupap

‘and that | have persorally reviewed the material and facs st forth hereln desibing our proposed plan to achieve
the MBE/AWBE goats ofthis contract.

‘AI MBE/WBE res included in ts plan have boon cortid as such by the Cty of Chicago (Leters of Certication
tached)

[MBE or WBE Prime Consutart!Contactor. prime constant certied MBE a WEE fm, attach copy
of Cay of Chicago Leu of Coruicaton. (Cartinatin of Us prime coat as « MBE ste the MBE
{oa only. Ceiicaton of te prime coeitant as a WAE sss the WBE gol ony)
[MBES anc WEES asin Vertue. prime costar aot vet an one or me jot vereure
rer ae cried MBs o WBEs, tach copies of ete of Creston and a copy oft Venture
‘epearert let cescriing the role othe MBEWBE frm) nd ones ire te Jone vertu
MBEWBE Sutconastrs. Complete for exch MEIWEE s.bconstarubcotracorpptie
1. Nemeot Maewae: Excepriwal. Buildwg Sepvices
pecres_ 6444 wl. Noe Avenue, Oak Park Ti. 60302 _
Contac Person: Narasha Roly wSon! Prove fos )383-C415
Data Anoun of Partipaion §_ Ue, STS «°C

Percent Amount of Parcipation: tT

2 Nemec sown SIS

haces

Contact Person: Prone:

alae Amount of Participation $

Percen Amount of Partieipatn:

Page’ of 3
vimessovee NR

Aeros

Contat Porson: Phone:

Dota: Amount of Patcpation

Percont Amount Parespaton %
Nam of MBEWEE: Ni

Aeros:

Contact Porson Prone,

De Arent of aati
percat Aout Paneton: *
Ne of MEME [he

ese

Contact Person: Prone:

bot Anette
pcre Anat Ptptan_
same CN Ak

Rese.

Contact Porson Phone!

Date AneurfPanepete
pear near Paton
Name MEME Na

pesos:

Contact Porson Prone:

Doar Amount of Partispation 8,
Percent Amount of Participation, __%

Page 2.012
SCHEDULE D-1
8, Aach adstona sheets 9 needs

1M. Summary of MBE Proposs

Net frm ae ae Aree pcan eet
Serany Conk qilTiesr eo. SSG" te PASTS"
: %
5 5
Taal BE Prion a0 zo" eee

V. Sat WOE Popa
WEF None vote Aree pecert exct
Exteqiiogal Build Same BZ Ifb bs
— — %
: x

To the bes of my knowedge.infermation and bee, the facts and representations contained in this Sched are
‘eyo, ond no mata fets hav boon omit

The conroor deat te olowing pon sth MBEMWBE Lion Oren
name Richa S AbgoMs prone Naber (11D) 487-4500

'1dosclemny declare an fem under penalties of porpxy thet the content ofthe foregoing document are ue and

correct and that | am authorized, on | mont gmc zene et

es
sateot__Fllinaais
County of Cake

This iptruent was, before me on, 2e12-_(sato)
o. Buchacd & Alizaas "sof persons)

{type of authority, eg officer, trustee, ee)
name of pany on beha of whom instrument

7 RICA A :
reese oromnaon | ———Atguctf

Page 3.013

SCHEDULE C1
Lotter of Intent from MBE/WBE to Perform
1s Subcontractor, Supplier and/or Consultant

Name of ProjecuConta Spaces
‘Specification Number:

from Gethin Bayik ond BusT Copa! mae: You Yo,

coe We eBRCN

ToD ‘i eur and the City of Chicago:

“Te undersigned inten to perform workin connection with the above projects as 2

Sole Proprietor XK corporation
TT ranvesh Verte

The MBENWBE sats tte undone conted bythe ataches ear from the City of Chicago
effective date of -MUARCK 7009 wo Fepwus 2 period of five years.

Te undersgd i prepreso provide th lowing ear bed serves sippy te folowing deed godin
pve rama
Bore Eanes ET Sayameaat Clesane, Setioes
Ama

The above described patormance i fred for the following price and describe terms of payment:

11 more space is needed to fly describe the MBEMWBE fm’s proposed scope of work andlor payment schedule.
tach addtional sheets.

The undersigned wil enter ito a formal writen agreement for the above work with you a a Prime Contractor,
condoned upon your executon ofa contract withthe City of Chicago, ad wil do so vathin (3) tree working days
‘of receipt ofa sgned contract rom the City of Chicago.

[OKO

Sar

arasna_[_ Kebtaso*

2-34 e
ABBR S73

Page 019
2

it
SEM |

Degen
Praca Seis

Mowat Gop
Che Pcwemes Oe

hy Ba, Rw t3
3 ech ae See
Chis, ina 0602
Gin gon

G1 Ha38 mM

tpt afar

March 2, 2009

Natasha Robinson

jonal Building Services, Inc.
6429 West North Avenue, Suito 122
(Oak Park, 60302

Annual Certificate Expires:
Vendor Number: 1072819

‘Déat MB, Rabinson:

‘Congratulations on your continued elgibity for certicaton as a MBEMBE by the City
cof Chicago. This MBEMWBE oerfication is valid untl December 2012; however your
‘ir must be re-validated annually. Your firm's next annual validation Is required by
December 1, 2009,

'As a concition of continued certification during this fve year period, yourrust fle 8 No-
‘Change Affidavit within 60 days prior ‘othe date of expiration. Failure fie this
‘Aifidavit wil resin the termination of your certification. Please note that you must
include a copy of your most current Federal Corporate Tax Return. You must
‘iso notiy the City of Chicago of any changes in ownership of control of your fim oF
‘any other matters or facts affecting your firm's elgilty for certification.

“The City may commence action to remove your firs elgbilty if you fai to notify us of
any changes of facts affecting your firm's certification ori your frm otherwise falls to
Scoperate with the Clty in any inquty or investigation. Removal of eligilty
provedures may also be commenced if our firm is found to be involved in bidding or
contractual iregularties.

Your fem's name willbe listed in the City's Directory of Minority Business Enterprises
and Women Business Entorprises in the specialty area(s) of

Janitorial and Custodial Services

‘Your firn's participation on City contracts willbe credited only toward MBE/WBE goals
in your area(s) of specialty. Wile yur particpation on City contracts is not mited to
‘Your specialty, credit toward MBEMWBE goals willbe givin only for work done in the
specially category. -

“Thank you for your continued interest in the City’s ‘Minenty and Women Business,
Enterprise Programs.

{aark Hands
Managing Deputy Procurement Ofteer

(MBE/WBE UTILIZATION REPORT
natn ape Na syworeson no BAe Ve 3402.
conret ni, T= Zelo04__

Proje Nane: CAC esp pg Sesty ices

state oF ZAM Nes
COUNTY (ciTy oF:_@o0'%

in comecion wa the abow-aptoned cont
"HEREBY DECLARE ANO ARM iat tam ne S98 EVE 5 Cos
‘and duly authorized representative of SAW sy Compan’

E45 east ST Stuer Cm) cramer CO.

nd thatthe folowing Minorty and Women Business Enterprises have beon contracted with an have furished, or
‘ae furnishing and preparing materia or, and rendering services stated inthe contact agreement.

The folowing Schedule accurately reflects the value ofeach MBEIWBE sit- agreement and the amourts of money

paid io cacnto date
GOODSSERVICES —«AMOUNTOF AMOUNT PAID
MBEWBE FIRM NAME PROVIDED ‘CONTRACT ‘TO-DATE
Seryand Bank ancl TusTlo, OdShepunSetw6es $40,Zon'es °
©

excegTional Build SvesC ips stenteeal Sirs § ATS
5

s
s
A
5
s
A
A

$
s
s
s

‘Total MBE: $, 200-00
Tot WBE 2 ——

Page tof 2
[MBELWBE UTILIZATION REPORT

| do solemnly declare and afr under the penalties of perjury thatthe contents ofthe foregoing document are vue
2nd correct and that | am authorized, on betalf ofthe contractor, to make ths affidavit.

Name ot Conracor: Sedwste{ Book, pd [Rost Company
ren ROSEN”

roneataon:  Rechasd S. Abpasls

Date: ne! bef 22, 20(2-

sateor AM wovS
Coun (iy) of COOK

Tis intrument was acknowedged before me on Duly 24 2e12_(sote)
wo Rechacd $1 Abraus inamets of pesos)

s_SeflP + ¢cO _ typeof authority, eg, office, trustee, et.)

fare of party on behalf of whom insrument was exec.ted

SERA SE. a -
Speusect me
(Seat

Page 2 of 2
Esha
Covapan stton Schedule

ws

23.24

$18.58

