Modificati immary Report

Contract (PO) Number: 26635
Modification Revision Number: 3

Specification Number: 98030

Name of Contractor: PATRICK ENGINEERING INC
City Departments DEPT OF AVIATION

Title of Contract: PROFESSIONAL TASK ORDER SERVICES: GROUP B) AIRPORT
ENGINEERING (NON-FEDERAL)

‘Mod Rea Number ‘Mod Reason Descrintion
REQUEST MoD FOR 19
MONTH TIME EXTENSION
FROM 105/17 THRU 52/19 FOR
190 26638 WITH PATRICK

151189 ‘TIME EXTENSION ENGINEERING, INC. FOR
PROFESSIONAL TASK ORDER
‘SERVICES GROUP B AIRPORT
ENGINEERING (NON-
FEDERAL)

Start Date: 10/3/2012
End Date: 5/2/2019

Procurement Services Contact Person: CHRISTOPHER DEGARD

Please refer tothe DPS website for Contact information under "Doing Business With The City".

thas been determined, on behalf of the City of Chicago, with regard to this Contract Amendment
‘Modification, that the circumstance said to necessitate the change in performance were not
reasonably foreseeable atthe time the Agreement was signed, or that the change is germane to the
original Agreement as signed, or thatthe change order is in the best interest ofthe City of Chicago
and is authorized by law.

Vendor Number: 1040749
Submission Date: £/4/1

‘Specification No: 98030
Contract (PO) No: 26635

Vendor No: 1040749
Requisition No: 151189

‘AMENDMENT NO. 1

This Agcooment Amendment (Amendment?) is made and entered into effective as of the 27”
day of 20-1). by and between the iy of Chicago (‘ty’), 2 municpal coxperaion
and inom rulo‘uil of focal government exieUng Under the Constiton ofthe State of Minas,
acing through ts Department of Avalon (Deparment), at Chicago, lino, and Patrck
Engineering inc, (Coneutan). The Cy and Constant are sometimes collectively referred to
heroin asthe Parte”

‘The City and Consuitant have heretofore entered into an Agreement for “Professional Task
Order Services: Group B) Airport Engineering (Non-Federal)" dated the 3rd day of October 2012
(hereinafter referred to as the “Agreement’). This Amendment is made pursuant to 3.1.7.,
Contract Extension Option and Section 3.1.4.9,, Amendments, of the Agreement

The purpose of this Amendment is to extend the Agreement for a period of nineteen (19)
months for the limited purposes of completing the projects listed below under item 1 of this
‘Amendment and to modify certain terms and conditions of the Agreement to incorporate
changes in laws and/or City policies since the date the Agreement was awarded or last
modified,

‘The CPO has determined, on behalf of the City of Chicago, with regard to this Contract
Amendment/Modification, that the circumstances said to necessitate the change in performance
were not reasonably foreseeable at the time the Contract was signed, or that the change is
{germane to the original Contract as signed, or that the change order isin the best interest of the
City of Chicago and is authorized by law.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS
‘The Parties agree as follows:
41. Pursuant to Section 3.1.7,, “Contract Extension Option’ of the Agreement, the Agreement’s
term is hereby extended for a period of nineteen (18) months, effective October 03, 2017

through May 02, 2019, for continuation of services to complete the already approved task
order project.

During the Extension Period, the Consultant Services shall be limited to the completion of
the folowing project:

Project Number Project

#13068. 15-00 Task Order #26635-85-TSK-00001, Bessie Coleman
Watermain at Chicago O'Hare Intemational Airport —
10/31/2017

This Amendment strictly forbids the Consultant from performing any Services other than
those related to the projects listed above.

‘Specteatn No, 9500 Paik Engnering ne
Page tal
2. Section 3.3.3.1, “Living Wage Ordinance” is hereby revised by deleting the first sentence
‘and replacing k withthe following revised sentence:

“As of July 1, 2016, the Base Wage is $12.15 per hour.”

3. Article 3, Standard Terms and Conditions, Section 3.3.5.1., Conflicts of Interest, is hereby
deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following revised Section 3.3.5.1., Conflicts of
Interest:

"3.8.5.1. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST

‘The Contractor covenants that it, and to the best ofits knowledge, its subcontractors if
‘any, presently have no interest and wil not acquire any interes, direct or indirect, in any
enterprise, project or contract which would conflict in any manner or degree with the
performance of the work, services or goods to be provided hereunder. The Contractor
further covenants that in the performance of the Contract no person having any such
interest wil be employed, either by Contractor or any subcontractor, to perform any work
or services under the Contract or have access to confidential information,

It the City determines that the Contractor does have such a confict of interest, the City
will notify the Contractor in writing, stating the basis fr its determination. The Contractor
will thereafter have 30 days_in which to respond with reasons why the Contractor
believes a conflict of interest does not exist. Ifthe Contractor does not respond ori the
City stil reasonably determines @ conflict of interest to exist, the Contractor must
terminate ts Interest in the other enterprise, project, or contract. Further, if the City in
the reasonable judgment of the CPO or Commissioner determines that any
subcontractors work or services for others conflicts with the work or services to be
provided by them, upon request ofthe City, Contractor must require that subcontractor
{o terminate such other work or services immediately.

lt Contractor or any subcontractors become aware of a conflict, they must immediately
‘stop work on the activity causing the conflict and notify the City.

{f Contractor or any subcontractors ("Contracting Parties") assist the Cy in determining
the advisabilty or feasibility of a project or in recommending, researching, preparing,
drafting or issuing @ request for proposals, bid specications for a project, oF other
Procurement solicitation document, the Contracting Parties must not participate, directly
or indirectly, a8 a prime, subcontractor, subconsuitant or joint venturer in that project or
In the preperation of @ proposal or bid for that project during the term of this Contract or
‘afterwards. The Contracting Parties may, however, assist the City in reviewing the
proposals or bids forthe project if none of the Contracting Parties have a relationship
with the persons or entities that submitted the proposals or bids for that project.

4, Attide 3, Standard Terms and Conditions, pursuant to Section 3.1.4.9., Amendments,
‘existing Section 3.3.7.3., Shakman Accord is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with
the following revised Section 3.3.7.3., Hiring Plan Prohibitions:

“3.3.7.3, HIRING PLAN PROHIBITIONS.

1. The City is subject to the June 16, 2014 “City of Chicago Hiring Plan” (the "2014
City Hiring Plan") entered in Shekman v. Democratic Organization of Cook
County, Case No 69 C 2148 (United States District Court for the Northern District
Of llinois). Among other things, the 2014 City Hiring Plan prohibits the City from

Sect Pc Ero
hiring persons as governmental employees in non-exempt positions on the basis,
‘of political reasons or factors.

2, Contractor is aware that Cty policy prohibits Cty employees from direcing any
individual to apply fora postion with Contractor, etter as an employee or as a
‘subcontractor, and from directing Contractor to hire an individual as an employee
OF a8 a subcontractor. Accordingly, Contractor must folow its own hiring and
Contracting procedures, without being influenced by Cty employees. Any and all
Personnel” provided by  Contrecior under this Conivact are employees or
‘subcontractors of Contractor, not employees of the City of Chicago. This
Contract Is not intended to and does not consule, create, gve rise to, of
otherwise recognize an employer-employee relationship of any kind between the
City and any personnel provided by Contractor,

3. Contractor wil not condition, base, or knowingly prejudice or affect any term or
‘aspect ofthe employment of any personnel provided under this Contract, or offer
employment to any individual to provide services under this Contrac, based
‘upon or because of any polical reason or factor, including, without limitation, any
indvidva’s politcal afilation, membership in a poltical organization or party,
poltcal support or activity. poltical financial contributions, promises of such
poltical support, activity oF financial contrbutions, or such individuals polical
sponsorship or recommendation. For purposes ‘of this Contract, a poltical
organization or parly is an Identiable group or enliy thet has as ts primary
purpose the support of or opposition to candidates for elected public office
indlvidual poltical actives are the actives of individual persons in suppor of or
'n opposition to political organizations or partes or candidates for elected publc
offee

4. Inthe event of eny communication to Contractor by a City employee or City
‘ficial in violation of paragraph 2 above, or advocating a violation of paragraph 3
above, Contractor wil, as soon as is reasonably practicable, report such
communication to the Hing Oversight Section of the City’s Office of tho
Inspector General, and also to the head of the relevant City Department utlizing
services provided under this Contract. Contractor will also cooperate with any
Inquires by OIG Hiring Oversight”

‘5. Article 3, Standard Terms and Conditions, Section 3.3, Compliance With All Laws, is hereby
‘amended by adding the folowing provision as Subsection 3.3.9. of the Contract:

"3.39. CERTIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.

By entering into this Contract with the City, Contractor certifies to the best of its
knowledge and belief that i, its principals and any subcontractors used in the
Performance of this contract, meet City requirements and have not violated any City or
‘ister agency policy, codes, stale, federal, or local laws, rules or regulations and have
‘not been subject to any debarment, suspension of other disciplinary action by any
‘government agency. Additionally, if at any time the contractor becomes aware of such
information, it must immediately disciose it to the City

6. Article 3, Standard Terms and Conditions, Is hereby amended by adding the folowing
provision as Section 3.7. of the Contract

“3.7. DUTY TO REPORT CORRUPT ACTIVITY

‘Specteaton No, 4020 - Pack Engen
Pagesale
Its the duty of the Contractor to report to the Inspector General, directly and without
‘undue delay, any and all information concerning conduct which it knows or should
reasonably know to involve corrupt or other unlawful activiy by its employees or the
‘employees of any ofits subcontractors, in connection with the performance of city work,
‘or by any person dealing withthe city which concems the person's dealings with the city
Knowing failure to make such a report will bean event of default under this Contract.”

7. Article 3, Standard Terms and Conditions, is hereby amended by adding the following
provision as Section 3.8. of the Contract:

"3.8, EDS UPDATE OBLIGATION

Contractor is required to noty the City and update the EDS whenever there Is @ change
in circumstances that makes any certiication or information provided in an EDS
Inaccurate, obsolete or misleading. Failure to notiy the Cly and update the EDS is
rounds for decaring the Contractor in default, termination of the Contract for default,
{and declaring thatthe Contractor Is Ineligible fr future contracts.”

8. Attile 3, Standard Terms and Conditions, is hereby amended by adding the following
provision as Section 3.9. of the Contract:

"3.9, ELECTRONIC MAIL COMMUNICATION

Electronic mail communication between Contractor and City employees must relate only to
business matters between Contractor and the City.”

8. Article 3, Standard Terms and Conditions, Is hereby amended by adding the following
provision as Section 3.10. of the Contract:

"3.10. GENERAL CIVIL RIGHTS PROVISION

‘The contractor agrees that it will comply with pertinent statutes, Executive Orders and such
tues as are promulgated to ensure that no person shall, on the grounds of race, creed,
color, national origin, sex, age, or handicap be excluded from participating in any activity
‘conducted with or benefiing from Federal assistance.

“This provision binds the contractors from the bid solicitation period through the completion of,
the contract This provision is inaction to that equed of Tie VI of the Chl Rights Act of

10. Article 3, Standard Terms and Conditions, is hereby amended by adding the following
provision as Section 3.11. of the Contract:

“3.11, CIVIL. RIGHTS ACT OF 1964, TITLE VI, COMPLIANCE WITH
NONDISCRIMMINATION REQUIREMENTS:

During the performance of this contract, the contractor, for itself, its assignees, and
‘successors in interest (hereinafter referred to as the “contractor? agrees as follows:

3.11.1. Compliance with Regulations

‘Specteaton No. 9930 -Pate Ergeorrg ne
Pog 48
‘The contractor (hereinafter includes consultants) will comply with the Tle VI List of
Pertinent Nondiscrimination Statutes and Authorities, as they may be amended from
time to time, which are herein incorporated by reference and made part of this
‘contract.

8.11.2. Non-discrimination

The contractor, with regard to the work performed by it during the contract, will not
discriminate on the grounds of race, color, or national origin in the selection and
retention of subcontractors, including procurements of materials and leases. of
‘equipment. The contractor will not participate directly or indirectly inthe discrimination
Prohibited by the Acts and the Regulations, including employment practices when the
Santract covers any acy, projec, or program st forth in Append B of 49 CFR pat

211, Sokstatona ‘er Subcontract, Wudng Prcements of Malwa ond
ipment

In alll solicitations, either by competitive bidding, or negotiation made by the contractor
for werk to be performed under a subcontract, including procurements of materas, or
leases of equipment. each potential subcontractor or supper wil be notified by the
contrac of the contractor's obligations under this cortract and the ‘Acts and the
Regulations relaive to Non-dlscrimination on the grounds of race, cole, or national
nin

3.11.4. Information and Reports

The contractor wil provide all information and reports required by the Acts, the
Regulations, and directives issued pursuant thereto and wall permit access to its books,
records, accounts, other sources of information and its facilities as may be determined
by the sponsor or the Federal Aviation Administration to be pertinent to ascertain
‘compliance with such Acts, Regulations, and instructions. Where any information
required of a contractor isin the exclusive possession of another who fails or refuses to
furnish the information, the contractor will $0 certify to the sponsor or the Federal
‘Aviation Administration, as appropriate, and will st forth what effors it has made to
‘obtain the information,

3.11.5. Sanctions for Noncompliance
In the event of contractor's noncompliance with the Non-discrimination provisions of
this contract, the sponsor will impose such contract sanctions as it or the Federal
‘Aviation Administration may determine to be appropriate, Including, but not lmited to:

8. Withholding payments to the contractor under the contract until the contractor
‘complies; andior

b. Canceling, terminating, or suspending a contract, in whole or in part.
8.11.6. Incorporation of Provisions
‘The contractor wil include the provisions of paragraphs 3.11.1. through 3.11.6 in every

subcontract, including procurements of materials and leases of equipment, unless
exempt by the Acts, the Regulations and directives issued pursuant thereto. The

‘Speceon No. 88090 Patek Eee ie,
Pepesle
Contractor wil take action with respect to any subcontract or procurement as the sponsor
‘or the Federal Aviation Administration may direct as a-means of enforcing such
provisions including sanctions for noncompliance. Provided, that if the contractor
becomes involved in, or is threatened with Itgation by a subcontractor, or supplier
because of such direction, the contractor may request the sponsor to enter into any
ligation to protect the interests of the sponsor. In addition, the contractor may request
the United States to enter into the litigation to protect the interests of the United States.”

411.Artide 3, Standard Terms and Conditions, is hereby amended by adding the following
provision as Section 3.12. of the Contract:

"3.12. TITLE VILIST OF PERTINENT NONDISCRIMINATION AUTHORITIES

(Source: Appendix E of Appendix 4 of FAA Order 1400.11, Nondiscrimination in
Federally-Assisted Programs at the Federal Aviation Administration)

During the performance of this contract, the contractor, for iso, its assignees,
‘and successors in interest (hereinafter referred to as the “contractor agrees to
comply with the folowing non-discminaon statutes end authors; incudig
‘but not limited to:

+ Tile VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. § 2000d et soq., 78 stat.
252), (prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin);

+ 49 CFR part 21 (Non-discrimination In Federaly-Assisted Programs of
‘The Department of Transportation—Etfectuation of Tile VI of The Chi
Rights Act of 1964);

+ The Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition
Policies Act of 1970, (42 U.S.C. § 4601), (prohibits unfair treatment of
Persons displaced or whose property has been acquired because of
Federal or Federal-aid programs and projects);

+ Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, (29 U.S.C. § 794 et 809.)
‘as amended, (prohibits discrimination on the’ basis of disabilty); and 49
CFR part 27;

+ The Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended, (42 U.S.C. § 6101 ot
seq.) (prohibits discrimination on the basis of age);

. Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982, (49 USC § 471, Section
47123), a8 amended, (prohibits discrimination based on race, creed,
Color, national origin, or sex);

+ The Civil Rights Restoration Act of 1987, (PL 100-209), (Broadened the
‘scope, coverage and applicability of Titie VI of the Civil Rights Act of
1964, The Age Discrimination Act of 1975 and Section 504 of the
Rehabittation Act of 1973, by expanding the definition of the terms
“programs or activities” to include all of the programs or activities of the
Federa-aid recipients, sub-recipients and contractors, whether such
programs or actives are Federally funded or not);

+ Titles I and i of the Americans with Disabilties Act of 1990, which

Spuceaion No 98030 - Paik Engage
Pox oats
prohibit discrimination on the basis_of disabilty in the operation of public
entities, public and private transportation systems, places of public
accommodation, and certain testing entiies (42 U.S.C. §§ 12131 —
12189) as implemented by Department of Transportation regulations at
49 CFR parts 37 and 38;

+ The Federal Aviation Administration's Non-dlscrimination statute (49
US.C. § 47123) (prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color,
national origin, and sex);

+ Executive Order 12898, Federal Actions to Address Environmental
Justice in Minority Populations and Low-Income Populations, which
fensures non-<ciscrimination against minority populations by discouraging
‘programs, polices, and activites with disproportionately high and adverse
human health or environmental effects on minority and lowincome
populations;

+ Executive Order 13166, improving Access to Services for Persons with
Limited English Proficiency, and resuiting agency guidance, national
‘origin discrimination includes discrimination because of limited English
proficiency (LEP). To ensure compliance with Title VI, you must take
‘reasonable steps to ensure that LEP persons have meaningful access to
your programs (70 Fed. Reg. at 74087 to 74100),

+ Tile IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, as amended, which
Prohibits you from discriminating because of sex in education programs or
actives (20 U.S.C. 1881 et seq)”

12. Article 3, Standard Terms and Condtions, is hereby amended by adding the folowing
provision as Section 3.13. of the Contract

"3.13. AIRPORT AND AIRWAY IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 1982, SECTION 520 ~
GENERAL CIVIL RIGHTS PROVISIONS

‘The Contractor assures that it will comply with pertinent stetutes, Executive orders and
‘such rules as are promulgated to assure that no person shall, on the grounds of race,
‘reed, color, national origin, sex, age, or handicap be excluded from participating in any
‘ctivty conducted with or Benefiting from Federal assistance. This provision obligates
the tenanlconcessionairellessee or its transferee for the period during which Federal
assistance is extended to the airport a program, except where Federal assistance is to
Provide, or is in the form of personal property or real property oF interest therein or
structures or improvements thereon. In these cases the provision obligates the party or
‘any transferee for the longer of the folowing periods: (a) the period during which the
propery is used by the airport sponsor or any transferee fot @ purpose for which Federal
‘assistance is extended, or for another purpose involving the provision of similar services
‘or benefits or (b) the period during which the airport sponsor or any transferee retain
‘ownership or possession of the propery. In the case of conractors, this provision binds
the contractors from the bid solicitation period through the completion of the contrac.
This provision isin addition to that required of Tile VI ofthe Civil Rights Act of 1964,"

18. The Consultant has provided Insurance Certificates, copies of which are attached to this
‘Amendment as Attachment A, and incorporated into this Amendment by reference, The

Specticaten No, 68030 Pa Engen e
Poge Tale
Consultant warrants and represents that such documents are accurate as of the date of
‘execution of this Amendment,

14. The Consultant has electronically completed and fled an online City of Chicago Economic
Disclosure Statement and Affidavit (‘EDS"). Instructions for Completing Economic
Disclosure Statement and Affidavit (EDS) Online are attached to this Amendment as
‘Attachment B. The Consultant has provided a copy of the Certificate of Fling for Online
EDS, a copy of which is attached to this Amendment. The EDS is incorporated herein by
reference.

15. Execution of this Amendment by Consultant is duly authorized by the Consultant, and the
signature(s) of each person signing on behalf of the Consultant have been made with
‘complete and full authority to commit the Consultant to all terms and conditions of this
‘Amendment, including each and every representation, certification, and warranty contained
herein, or as may be required by the terms and conditions hereof.

16. All other terms and conditions of the Agreement, except as herein modified, and previous
‘addenda shall remain unchanged and remain in full force and effect.

‘Signature Page Follows

‘Speceton No, 6030 Paick Enraerg n
Page bore
AMENDMENT/MODIFI E

(Wendor)
By. na

te

‘twat

sate o ener

County at

Tatura ae ctnowldoed bof sit tie, Zi aay a]

‘The undersigned has determined, on behalf of the Cty of Chicago, with regard to this Contract
‘AmendmentModifiction, thatthe crcumstances said to necesstate the change in performance were not
‘reasonably foreseeable atthe ime the Contract was signed, or that the change is gormane to the original
Contract as signed, or thatthe change order sin the best inorest of the Cy of Chicago and is authorized

27207

romeo} Date
(Rev. 0429/11) For All DPS Units

‘Spectentn No. 8090 -Puc Engng re. NN
coe

Attachment A

Insurance Certificate

_Spectcaton No. 9030 -Patick Engrg he
ACORS CERTIFICATE OF LIABILITY INSURANCE ior

“TS GERTINGATE Is ISSUED AS A MATTER OF INFORMATION ONLY AND CONFERS NO RIGHTS UPON THE GERTIPATE HOLDER
CoRTificATE.DOES WOT AFFIRNATIVELY OR NEGATIVELY AMEND, EXTEND OW ALTER THE COVERAGE AFFORDED BY THE POLICIES
ELOW. THis CENTINCATE OF SURANCE DOES NOT CONSTITUTE A CONTRACT BETWEEN THE ISSUNO MGURER(S), AUTHORED
[REPRESENTATIVE OR PRODUCER. AND THe CERTIFICATE HOLDER

{etre ond condone othe pty, cra pas vn teaTbonaa hora ante ert arent oe ae
ee

anon
ee Bhecoseenn ———naraosizs
Se sSaa ir a —

oa aa aes
seme aaa [aor — aT Ta —
zee | some waned so

RE: Beale Coleman Water Main Project Project No. 21853.008, Contact Numbar 25535,

"gan tn og rae Ader rece rten contact nba Caer ang mri Lsty on
‘sbsfandnecocy bossa aps panes ye Narada common we eee
See Ata
SERTRERTEHODER aSELLATION
gous nove asomne ace ncmce to roe
et Aion SSA eae aoe ae! ee aaa
Sesita Some Ross AconDANCE WITH Te POUY PREMONS
ier comes Bees
Grego ont oo
wail Bre

‘AconD 28201008) ‘The ACORD name and loge ae regletared marta of ACORD
‘AGENCY CUSTOMER m: PATRENG-02

‘en —
ACORD ADDITIONAL REMARKS SCHEDULE Page tot 1
Resrance Agency, Ud "Bainc Engineering ne
aoe See

oe aa
es ACOTIOKA REAR FORM A BONED TORCORO FORK
roma younen: 25 ron re: CERTIFICATE OF UABAITY NSURANCE

1} Sse Set Aon

bret Poy Flow fom

‘ae erogaton nevol hata ese eps oe Wart’ Cpensaton Gener Labay ane Adana pol
‘Shon egies by ton earn etces,

fwnere somes by ie

‘REORO Te ea,

“S00 ACORD CORPORATION. Aivighte reserved
‘Tee ACORD name an logo are registered mark of ACORD
Policy Number 732z91462329035

leoued by Liberty mutual
‘THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.

ILLINOIS COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY ENHANCEMENT FOR CONTRACTORS.

This endorsement modes insurance provided under he flowing:
COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART

Index of modied tems.

tem 1. Reasonable Fores
fom 2. Non-Owned Watercraft Extension,
liem 3. Damage To Premises Rented To You - Expanded Coverage
lem 4 Body Injury To Co-Employees.
fem 5. Knowledge Of Occurrence
lem 6, Notlee Of Occurrence,
‘tem. Unintentional Errors And Omissions
lem 8. Bodily Injury Redeftnition
‘tem 3. Supplementary Payments ~ Increased Limits
Nem 10. Property n Your Gare, Custody Or Control
tiem 11. Mobile Equipment Redefinition
lem 12. Newly Formed Or Acquired Entities
fem 13. Blanket Adetional insured Where Required By Writen Contract
Lessors of Leased Equament,
Manegers oF Lessorsof Premises
Mortgogeee, Assignees or Recelvere
Oumors, Leseeoe & Contractors
‘Achitecs, Engineers or Surveyors
‘Any Person or Orgertraion
ftom 14, Blanket Adaitional Insured ~ Grantors Of Permits
liom 15. Waiver OF Right Of Recovery By Written Gontract Or Agreement
fem 16. Other insurance Amencment
Nom 47. Contractual Uiabilty-Ralroads

ftom 1. Reasonable Force

Exclusion a. Section 1- Coverage A Body injury And Property Damage Libltys replaces bythe folowing:

8 Expected Or intended Injury
"Body Iniury” or "property damage” expected cr intended tom the standpoint of the insured. This exclusion
does not apply to "badly inky” “property damage’ resuing "om te use of Teasonabie fee to protect
persons or property

hom 2. Non-Owned Watercraft Extension

‘Paragraph (2) of Exclusion 9. of Section |- Coverage A - oily injury And Property Damage Lia is replaced
by the now

(2) A waterrat yeu donot own thet

(2) Less than $5 feet long: an

Le 32479 0512 © 2012 Lierty Mutua Ineurance A rights reserved Page tof 8
Intudos copyrighted moteral of insurance Sevioss Off, Ine
‘wih #s permis.
(©) Not Boing used to cary persons ct property for a charge
tem 3. Damage To Premises Rented To You - Expanded Coverage.

'A. The fal paragraph of 2 Exclusions of Seton | - Coverage A - Body injury And Property Damage Labi 6
‘replaced by Be folowing:

Exclusions e. through n. do not apy to demage by fre. ighinng oF explosion or subsequent damages
fesuling Trem sueh Me, Ighinng or explosion incluang wate dariags to bromines whe rented 12 yoo ot
temporary ocaupied bj YOu wth permesion of the owner A separate lit of insurance apples ths
‘coverage ts dower in Section I> Limite Of Inurance,

1B. Paragraph 6. of Secton Ill Limits OF insurance replaced by the folowing

8. Stbject to Paragraph 5. stove, he Damage To Premises Rented To You Limit the most we wil pay
luider Coverage A for darnages because of “property Gariagy” Wo any One premises, wile rete W you
‘inthe case of damage oy fre, Ighning, explosion or subsequent damages resulting fom such fe,
lightning or explosion inuding water camage fo promises whde fried i» You or tomporely occupied By
yOu wh permission ofthe owner

“The Damage To Premises Rerted To You Limit i the greater of
18. $300,000; or
The Damage Te Premises Rented To Yau Limit shown onthe Declarations.

C. Paragraph 8.2. ofthe defiton of "insured contract In Secon V — Detiniions is replaced by the folowing:

12 A contract fora loase of premises. However, that portion of the contrat for a lease of premises that
inderifes any person cx organization for damage by fe, lighting, exslosion or subsequent. damages
{esting from wh re, Yghing or explosion inalsang water camage to prema, wile Yee i> You of
{emporanly cocupied by ou wil pennission oF the comer fs not an "sured contact

1D. The paragraph immediatly folowing Paragraph (6) of exokssion |. of Section | - Coverage A — Bex Injary
‘And Property Damage Listy repaced Oy the following
Paragraphs (1), () and (4) of tis exclusion do not apply to “property damage” (cher han camage by fe,
lightning or expiosion or subsequent damages resuting Hom auch fe, lohang cr explosion mcuidng Water
damage) to premises, induaing the contants of such premises, renied fo you fr @ period of 7 oF fewer
‘consocutve Gaya "A separate bit of neurance apples Wo Damage To Promios Rented To Vou ae deacrbod
in Seoen il Limits of insurance

tem 4. Body inury To Co-tmployees
‘A. Peragraph 2.f Section Il- Who Is Aa Insured ie amended to inchade
Each ofthe folowing also an insured
‘Your supervisory or maragerent “employees” (other than ether your “executive officers” (f you are an
‘organization ctr than  parinership, jo venture of ttedkablty company) oF Your Managers (tyou are 8
limatad tabity compen) are eureds hte In the course of their employment or wna pestorming les
‘elated to the condvet of your businoes with respect to “body INUY"

(1 Toyeu
(2) To,your partners or members (f you are parership orjint venture),

(2) To your members (f you area limited tsi company); er

Lc32179 05 12 (© 2012 Liberty Mutua Insurance. Al rights reserved. Poge 2018
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Ofc, Ine,
‘with #s permission
() To a covemployee" or ‘otunteer works” while that ooemployee” of “olunteer workers eter Inthe
‘couroe of hla other employment by you or wie performing dubs related io he conduct of your business
(rtading parcipaton in ay receatonal scdise sponsored By Yo).

‘You "employees" (other than either your “executive offers” (you are an otganzation other than a

anership, nl venue o ited tity company) or your managers (t you are ied italy compar)
‘workers af Ineureds while fy the couree of tar employment or hile performing tic rolsed

{© the condust of your buses fora ood Samartan At hat ruts body jun

(1) Toyou

(@) Toyourpariners or members (f you area partnership or joint venture)

(©) To your members (you ar a rated sabity company): oF

4) To a coremployee™ ot “volnieer worker" while thal ooemployee” of “olunteer wosker” eter othe
course of his or her employment by you or wale pecorrang Gules related tothe conduct of your businege
Aincuding partepation any recreational aces sponsored by You)

‘A Good Samaritan Act means an attempt to rescue oF ald @ person in imminent or serious perl provided he
thtempt is not recklessly mate

However, none of these “employees (including superviecty or management Temployeoe”) of “vokintser
workers ate nsureds forthe proving ofalure prove professional boath cae cavvees

18, The Insurance provided by this Hem 4. wil not apply if the inured person's sole vemmedy for such injury
Provided under a workers! compensaton law oF any sa ow.

C. Other Insurance

“The insurance proved by ths tem 4. excess over any oer vad ane clei insurance avaiable tothe
Insure, whether primary. excess, cordngent or on any cher bass,

hem 5. Knowledge Of Occurrence

Knowledge of an ‘occurence by your agent, servant or “employee wil not Hse conse knowndge by yous
Lanless your “executive oficer of “employee” or other thr party designated by you lonely us f occurences”
has krowiedge of he “ooourrence™

thom 8. Notice OF Occurrence

For purposes of Parag!) 2. of Seoson IV - Conditions, you refers 0 an “exeouve ofeer” of the Named
Inguted oro te “epoyoe" designated by the ured Wo Qe us noice

‘tem 7. Unintentional Errors And Omissions,
‘Uninteniona faire of the Named ineured to close all hazards existing a the Inception of he policy shall not
be a Sasa for denal of sny Coverage afforded bythe paloy. However. you must fepon such an ero OF emSsion
10 us as soon as practicable arf soovery,

“This provision does net fect our ight te collect atonal premium er exercise our gt of cancelation or non

om 8, Body injury Redetinition
‘The definition of "bodily njun” in Seton V - Defitions is replaced by the following:

Lc 32 179 05 42 (© 2012 Letty Mutual Insurance. ll rights reserved Page 3.018
Includes copyrighted matoral of insurance Services Offen, Ine
‘oh #s permission.
“Boy injury! means:

2 Body run, skness or cease sustained by @ parson, hiding death esting rom any ofthese a any

Mental anguish, shock or humiliation arising out of injury 2s defined In Paragraph a, above, Menta anguish
means any type of menta or enalionatinese or diatrese

tem 9, Supplementary Payments - Increased Limits

Parearahe 1. and 1 of Secon |- Suptementary Payments - Coverages A And B, are replaced by the

1. Upto $3,000 for cost of bal bonds requted bocauee of accidents orate law volatone aieng out ofthe use
cof any venice o when the Bey Iyry isaity Coverage apples We do not have furs tee bonds

4. Allressonable expenses incurred by he insured at ou request o asset usin the investigation or detense of
‘he clam or sult cluding substantated ices of earmnga up fo 8500 a day because of time of fom work

hom 10. Property In Your Care, Custody Or Contr!
A. Paragraphs (3) and (4) of exclusion j of Section I~ Coverage A ~ Badly ijury and Property Camage Liaiy
oniy ape To

1. "Property amage" to borrowed equiment, or
2. “Property damage” to property in your are, custody an contr! while tran

8. This insurance does not apply to any portion of oss for which the insured has avalable any cther vakd and
colectbe insurance, whether primey, excess, contingent, ron ary oer base, uness such oer insuraron
‘tae spectioaly purchased by bs nsdrad to apy in excess of he pohey

C. Umit of insurance

Subject to Paragraphs 2.3, end 5. of Section
provided by Paragraph A. above le

$10,000 Each Occurrence Lit
{$25,000 Aggregate Ln

“The Each Occurrence Limit fr this coverage apples to a damages a8 a rest of any one “cosurence"
‘epardles of he numberof persons or organizations who susan Gamage because of hat “oocurence”

Units OF Insurance, the most we wil pay for aurance

‘The Aggregate Limits the most we wl pay forthe sum of all damages under ti te 10,
Nom 14. Mobile Equipment Redefinition

“The definition of "Moble Equipment” Section V Definitions is amended to include set propelled vehicles with
permenenty elated equipment ess then 1000 pourds gross vehicle weight thal are rena designed fr

(1) Snow removat
(2) Road Maintenance, but not construction orresurtacing: or
©) Steet ceaning.

Le32 179 05 12 © 2012 Liberty Mutua! Insurance. Al rights reserved. Pope 4018
Inoudes copyrighted materal of Insurance Services Orie, Ine,
"wth #s permission
hem 12. Newly Formed Or Acquired Entities
Paragraph 3. of Seaton Il Viho Is An Inaued a reptaed bythe fosowing
3 Any organization, other man a partnership of jon! venture, you newly acquire or form and over which you

‘mainlan marily ownership or majority interest wal quay ao 8 Narned Insured i Where tno other sar
Frsurance avalaie to tnt organizasen”

1 Coverage under this provision I afforded any un.
(1) The 1801 day ser you acai or form the organization
(2) Separate coverage is purchased fer the organization; or
(3) The ena of he potoy pao.
whichever erier

. Coverage A does not apply to "body injun’ of “property damage” that occurred bere you acquired or
formed tne organization; and

(© Coverage 8 does not aly to "personal and advertising injury arising ou of an oflense conmilled before
you accued o formed the orgencabon

om 13, Blanket Adstional insured Where Required By Writen Contract
Paragraph 2 of Section Il - Who ls An Insured amended to ad the flowing:
‘© Adiona Insured by Writen Contractor Witten Agreement

“The folowing ae insureds under the poicy when you have agreed a wt contractor writen agreement
‘provide mom coverage a6 adaonal neureds under your POLY

(1) Lessors of Leased Equipment: The person(s) o: ogarizatio(s) tom, whom you lease equipment, bul
‘nly with respect to Babity fo: "body in’, “propery damage” of "personal an advertising Injury”
‘caused, in whole of ln part. by your mainlovanoe, operation o Use of egupment leased" you by such

person(s) oF erganizaton(s).

(@) Managers or Lessors of Premises: Any manager ot lessor of premises leased to you in which the
‘alten leave agreement obigates you to procure ecctional neured coverage,

“The coverage aforded to te additonal ingured feed to iabilty In connection with te unership,
Imatstenance of use ofthe premises leased to You and caused, in whee orn part. by same negigent ts
‘oF omissions of you, your “employees” your agents or your subcontactoss. There Is no coverage for the
‘dda ured fr abit asing cui Of the sole negigeice ofthe addonel nsued oF those aug on
Beha of ne acationalinswed, except os proved below

It the waten agreement cbigates you to procure axdtonal msured coverage forthe adc insureds
Sole negigence then tie coverage for he accltonal insured salt conform to me agreement. but ony f
the apoheable law would alow you To inderilty he addtonal insured Tr Habltyatlang cut Of he
‘ddtonel insureds soe nepigense,

“Ths msurance does not spp to

(2) Any “occurrence” whic lakes place after you cease fo be a tenant i tha premises orto lease that
‘one or

(©) Any premises for which coverage is excluded by endorsoment

Lc32 47905 12 ©2012 Liberty Mutua! Ineurance. All ight reserved, Page Sof
Includos copyrighted motoral of auranea Services OFfe, ne
“sn #s permision
(©) Mortgages, Assignees or Recelvers: Any person(s) or organization(s) with respect o thelr Hability as
mengagee, assignee o feeer and.rsing out ofthe onnershp, maintenance oie of your premises
‘The insurance does not apply fo shuclral aieratone, new concrucson and emotion oparatene
perfozmed by 0 that person oe ergantonin

@) Owners, Lessees or Contractors: any person(s) or organzaions) to whom you are obligated by a
wien sgreement to procure addtional Insurea coverage, but ony wit Teepedt to Laball Tor "body
inury, "poperty damage” or "personal and adversing mur caused, In whole cin art, by You aoe oF
‘migione or the acts of omisione of your "employees" Your agents, or our eibeontactors, In te
Performance of your ongong Operations

‘This insurance does nol apply to "boxy uy’, "property damage’ of "personal and adversing iniy”
axing oof “your work" Included in the “producte-completed opersion hazard" unless You are required
{e prowde oucr coverage forthe additonal naured bythe writen agrecmert, and then ory fr the period
‘of ie require by the writen agreement and ony for Fablly caused, m whole crn par by Your acts oF
‘missions oF he ace or omissions of your "enplyeas", your agents, or your munconsrectors

“Thos no coverage for the addtional insured for tabity arsng out of the sole nagigence of te
_uttonal Insured or hose acing on Denali ofthe agaiona insured. excep 88 protided below.

Ite writen agreement cbigates you to procure additonal Insured coverage for the adcltona!aured's
‘Soa negigenss, then te coverage forthe atonal insures shal conform tote agreement tut ony if
the appicatie law would alow you fe Indemnty the additonal Neured Tor sablly aren’ Ow of the
‘atonal nsure's ol6 neglgence,

‘Ths insurance does not apply to "body nur’, “property damage” of “personal ard advertising lj
arcing out of tho rendering of, or the fare 10 render, any professional architectural, engineering oF
‘Surveying serve, matuang:

(2) The preparing, approving, oF fang lo prepare of soprove. maps, shop crawines, options, reports,
Surveys fed eaers, change orders or dawngs ene specticalins:

(©) Supervisory inspection architectural or engineering activites,

(©) Architects, Engineers or Surveyors: any architect, engineer. or surveyer engaged by you But ony wih
Tespect to labuty for "badly inlay, operly damage” oF "personal and advertising iury esimed.
‘whole orn port. by your acts oF emissions or he cla or emlesons of howe ting on your behalf
(2) mconnecton wih your premises; or
(0) inthe pertoomance of your ongoing operations

‘This insurance does not spply to “body inary’, “property damage” of “personal and advertising injury
sxising out ofthe rendering of ert ature fo rander any professional seroes by 0 for you, Inching

(8) The preparing, approving ot faling o prepare or approve. maps, shop Grawings.opions, repr,
survey, field orders, change orders of dawnigs ang speciicaione| of

(©) Supervisory, inspection, architectural or engineering sctvies,

© hye Tn rs yn a er ome
“personal and advertising injury” caused, in whole or in part, By your acts or ombestore oF te wots oF
SER arava oe

o

ne performance of your ongoing operations: of

Le32 979 05 12 (©2012 Liberty Mutual Insurance. Alright reserved, Page s ote
Inclados copyrighted material of surance Servioes Oc, Ine,
‘wi #8 permission
(©) In connection wah premises owned by you.
‘This Insurance dows not apaly to:

1. Any consruetin, renovation, demolition or insalaion operauons pesormed by oon bet of you oF
those operating on your behal

2. Any person or oxpanization whose profession, business o occupation le that ofan athiect. surveyor
‘or engineer win respect to labiey arsng sat of Ne freparaion ct approval Of aps, Sawing,
‘pinons, reporis, surveys, change orders, cesigns. specifcason or te performance of any oer
Drotesskinal varices by such person oF organzabon of

3. Any person or organization more epeciiealy covered in Paragrashs ©(1) though (5) above,
“The Insurance afforded to any person or organization as an insures under tis Paragraph 20,

(1) Apples only to coverage and minimum ints of insurance requied by te writen agreement or writen
eztct bt mo vet exons ote th tape coverage o et of mauranen Poi Dy the
pote.

(2) Does not sooty to any person oF organization for any “sly kj. "property damage” oF “personal and
‘advertising niu If ery oer addtional insured endorsement attached lots potcy applies thet person
‘rexgantzaton it regard to the "dy hvu, propery damage” or “personal and wavering nur

(©) Anoiies only I te "Dost inuy oF "peperty damage” occurs, or offense giving ke to “personal act
‘advertising Injury Is commited, subsequent te exoouton of te willen agreement ane

(4) Apples ony if be wrton agreement sn effeot at he tne the “boty ijey” of oroperty damage” o00u,
‘ratte tme te ofenee ging nse fo he “personal and advertising huis commited

them 14. Blanket Additional insured ~ Grantors Of Permits
Paragraph 2 of Section Il - Whole An Ineured e amended to add the following:

Ary stat, municipal or pica subcivsion wen respect lo ary operations pectoemed by you on your behalf
in connection wih premises you own, fe of contel and fo whit tis Ineurarce apples, for whic re sae,
‘muniipalty or polteal subdivision as isued a perma

However, this ineurance does not apply =

1. "oak nis “popeycamaos" or ‘persona and aaverteng Kyu" xn ot epertonspertomes or
‘the state, municipality oF political subdivision; "

2 ay “bodly ir” "property damage” included witin the ‘products completed operations hazard’ except
‘aan required by wien contract oF agreement iniatoa pio los: oF

3. "Bodly inuny "property damage” of "personal and averting jury’, unless negligent caused. In whole ot
In park by you or those acting on your beat

hom 15. Waiver OF Right Of Recovery By Witten Contract Or Agreement

‘The folowing Is adclec to Paragragh 8. Traneler OF Rights OF Recovery Against Others To Us of Socten IV —
Condens

‘le waive any ght of recovery ecause of payments we make under tis potcy for nur or damage arising out of
your ongoing operations or "yeur work naided inthe “preducte competed operatons hazard that we may have
{Soanst any person or erganzation with whom you have agreed ino witan convact or agreement to were Your
‘ons of rsovery but oy the “Dos Inuty propery damage" occurs, oratfense Quang se 10 ersona and
‘edverbsing Riu is commited subsequent to fe execution ofthe writen Contact or agreeers.

Le 321790542 © 2012 Lbery Mutual insurance Al igh reserved, Page 7 of

Incudos copyrighted materal of inauranea Services Offe, Inc.
"ths permission
tem 18. Other insurance Amendment

you ate obigated under a wren agreement to provide lability inurance on a primary, exa2ss, contingent. of
“any ether bass for any person or engarizalon hat qualifies ae an adtbonalnaured on tls poly, vs pokey wll
‘2pply solely on the basis required oy such writen agreerment and Paragraph 4 Other Insurance of Seczon TV =
ondsons ‘wil not apy. Where tre applicable wien agreement does nol spedty on what bons te habaty
Insurance wil apply, the prowslons of Paragiaph s. Other Insurance of Secten IV -”Conatons wll govern
However, this msuranee i excost over any ater insurance avatable fo the adonel intr for which iso
‘Covered as an adslllonal ured by alacant of an endorseenent 10 anstve pal proweng coverage for the
‘Same "aceuanee", om or

tem 17. Contractual Labitty Railroads
Paragraph 9. of Section V - Detintone is replaced by the folowing:
9 "naures Contac means:
©. A contract fora lease of premises. However, that porton ofthe contract fora lease of premises that
{ndemnies any parson or ergancaton for Samag= by fre to premises wre rented to you or temporary
‘Socuples by youn parmisskon of he over snot an nsured conesc
[A siitrace agreement:
6 Anyeasement er lcerae agreement,

‘An cbligaton, 28 required by ordnance, to ixiemnity a municpally, except in connection with work for a
‘munecipaty,

‘e. Arvelevalor maintenance agreement

{That part of anyother contractor agroemiont poring lo your business (ncluding an indemnification of a
rmunseipalty ip eannecton wih work perormed fora municipal) unde heh you assuve tha fot itty
‘of another party to pay for "Boy Inyo "property samage” Yo. thea person or organizaten, Tot
Tanaty means @kabity that woud be Imposed Bylaw In te absence of any contactor agreement

Peragrap |. does notinclude tha part any contact or agreement:
(1) That nderniios a architect, engineer or surveyor for Ixy of camage aisng out of:

(@) Preparing, sporoving oF fling to prepare oF esprove maps, shop drawings, oplsons, reports,
_suveys. eld orders, change orders or crawinos and specications. of

(©) Giving drectons or insructons, oF fling to give them, i thats the primary cause ofthe injury or
damage: or

(2) Under which the insures, fan architect, engineer oF surveyor, assumes Habaty for an sry or
‘dumage arsing cut of tie insureds rendering oF Tally (9 ender potessional wrviews, Weide)
‘ose sted in Paragraph (1) above and supervisory, inspection, architecture or engineeting scivies

Lc 32179 05 42 © 2012 Liberty Mutual insurance. Alright resorve. Poge 8 of 8
Inclados copyrighted materal of insurance Services Offen, Ine
‘wh fs permission
= ParmENG-t1 —__suanwanansn
AgORe CERTIFICATE OF LIABILITY INSURANCE =

SS EES em
rom reno 2anvncot
CicgeOnperen o Aason COA), COA Spc. No. HE, POM. 2438,

ecocesnot ete erase nace ta te been

sonore Vier
a — ahr

‘Tee ACORD name and loge are ropitared mara of ACORD
ADDITIONAL COVERAGE SCHEDULE

COVERAGE UMITs
POLICY TYPE: ABE Professional Liability {$5,000,000 Per Ciaim
‘CARRIER: ACE American Insurance Company $5,000,000 Aggregate
POLICY TERM: 04/01/2017 - 0401/2018 £128,000 Deductible

POLICY NUMBER: 625564121003,

Attachment B

On-Line Economic Disclosure Statement

Spectaon No, 8080 — Pack Engineering ne
EDS Number: 112041 Date of This Fiing:06/12/2017 08:58 AM
Centficate Printed on: 06/12/2017 (Original Filing Date:06/12/2017 08:58 AM

Disclosing Party: Patrick Engineering Inc. Title: Vice President
Filed by: Mr. Thomas Carey

‘Matter: Amendment of Agreement-Time
Extension

Applicant: Patrick Engineering Inc.

‘Specification #: 98030

Contract #: 26635

‘The Economic Disclosure Statement referenced above has been electronically filed with

the City. Please provide a copy of this Certificate of Filing to your city contact with other
required documents pertaining tothe Matter. For additional guidance as to when to provide this
CCentficate and other required documents, please follow instructions provided to you about the
“Matter or consult with your City contact.

‘A copy of the EDS may be viewed and printed by visiting
‘ntp://webapps! cityofchicago.org/EDSWeb and entering the EDS number into the EDS Search,
Prior to contract award, the fling is accessible online only tothe disclosing party and the City,
bat is sill subject to the Ilinois Freedom of Information Act. The filing i visible online to the
public after contract award.
