Contract Summary Sheet

Contract (PO) Number: 6499
Specification Number: 21324

[Name of Contractor: CHRISTOPHER B. BURKE ENGR. LTD
City Department: PLANNING & DEVELOPMENT

Title of Contract: Professional Land Surveying Services

‘Term of Contract: Start Date: 1/1/05
End Date: 12/31/07

Dollar Amount of Contract (or maximum compensation if a Term Agreement) (DUR):
$82,100,000.00

Brief Description of Work: Professional Land Surveying Services

Procurement Services Contact Person: OLIVIA MILTON

1030650

OCT 1 8 2004
sean ory

Specifiestion No: 21324
‘Contract Na: 6499
Requisition No. 12363,
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT
STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
FOR
PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYING SERVICES.
BETWEEN

THE CITY OF CHICAGO
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT

AND
CHRISTOPHER B. BURKE ENGINEERING, LTD.

Vendor Code :1030650 A

RICHARD M. DALEY
MAYOR
(City Funds)

“The City may rom te to tine revise these terms a

conditions

‘Revised Soar 142004 (74)

—
ARTICLE |. DEFINITIONS

2.10
2a

ARTICLE 3.

. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF CONSULTANT

1. COMPENSATION

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT
STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS

: ‘TABLE OF CONTENTS
= PAGE
1
Definitions a
Interpretation fee 2
Order of Precedence of Component Parts 22

‘Scope of Services
Deliverables .......
‘Standard of Performance
Personnel
‘Ownership of Documents...
Copyright Ownership :
Visual Artists Rights Act Waiver
Records and Audits

(@) Records .
(&) Audits
Confidentiality
Assignments and Subcontracts.

TIME LIMITS FOR PERFORMANCE
Schedule for Performance ....
Timeliness of Performance
Agreement Extension Option

Basis of Payment .
Method of Payment
Criteria for Payment .
Funding
'Non-Appropriation

DISPUTES

‘COMPLIANCE WITH ALL LAWS ..
Compliance with All Laws Generally...

‘Revised Jamary 14,2004 (TA) i
62 Nondiserimination
63 Compliance with the Americans with Disa

Accessibilty ....... cece
64 Inspector General ..
6.5 Bribiness Relationships with Elected Officials
6.6 Chicago "Living Wage” Ordinance .
6.7 Deemed Inclusion

ARTICLE 7. SPECIAL CONDITIONS ........
7.1 Warranties and Representations
72° Ethics
73 Joint and Several
74 Business Documents
7 Conflicts of interest
7.6 — Non-Liability of Public Officials

iy

EVENTS OF DEFAULT, REMEDIES, TERMINATION, SUSPENSION AND
RIGHT TO OFFSET
Events of Default Defined
Remedies .....
Early Termination
Suspension .
Right to Offset .

ARTICLE 9. GENERAL CONDITIONS .

9.1 Entire Agreement ..
(@) General 22 002020.7)
(b) No Collateral Agreements .
© NoOmissions .

ARTICLE 10. NOTICES

ARTICLE 11. AUTHORITY.

ARTICLE 12. SPECIAL CONDITIONS REGARDING MBE/WBE COMMITMENT . .

‘Revised January 14, 2004 (TA) ii
Exhibit 1

Exhibit 2

Exhibit 3

Exhibit 4

List of Exhibits
‘Scope of Services

‘Attachment A - Key Personnel

‘Attachment B - Schedule of Performance

Attachment C - Project Insurance Requirements

Compensation

‘Attachment A - Maximum Hourly Rates

Attachment B - City of Chicago Travel Reimbursement Guidelines
‘Attachment C - Consultant and Subconsultant Overhead Absorption Rates
MBE/WBE Commitments

Schedules C-1
Schedules D-1

‘No Change Affidavits and Disclosure of Retained Parties

Revised January 14,2004 (TA) iit
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT

This Agreement is entered into as of the _day of 2004 by and
between CHRISTOPHER B, BURKE ENGINEERING, LTD., an Illinois Corporation,
Consultant’), located at 9575 West Higgins Road, Suite 600, Rosemont, IL 60018, and the
City of Chicago ("City"), a municipal corporation and home rule unit of local government
existing under the laws of the State of Illinois, acting through its Department of Planning and
Development ("Department"),

‘The City and Consultant agree as follows:
‘TERMS AND CONDITIONS
ARTICLE 1. DEFINITIONS.
11 Definitions

‘The following words and phrases have the following meanings for purposes of
this Agreement:

“Additional Services” means those services which are within the general scope of
‘Services ofthis Agreement, but beyond the description of services required under
Section 2.1 and Exhibit | and all services reasonably necessary to complete the
Additional Services tothe standards of performance required by this Agreement.
Any Additional Services requested by the Department require the approval of the
City in a written amendment under Section 9.3 of this Agreement before
Consultant is obligated to perform those Additional Services and before the City
‘becomes obligated to pay for those Additional Services.

"Agreement" means this Professional Services Agreement, including all exhibits,
‘which are attached to it and incorporated in it by reference, and all amendments,
‘modifications or revisions made in accordance with its terms.

"Chief Procurement Officer” means the Chief Procurement Officer of the City
‘of Chicago and any representative duly authorized in writing to act on his behalf.

“Commissioner” means the Commissioner of the Department of Planning and

Development, and any representative authorized in writing to act on the
Commissioner's behalf

‘Revised Samuary 14, 2004 (TA) 1
fi rn pg Set

12

13

“Services” means, collectively, the services, duties and responsibilities described
in Article 2 and Exhibit | ofthis Agreement and any and all work necessary to
complete them or carry them out flly and tothe standard of performance required
inthis Agreement.

“Subcontractor” means any person or entity with whom Consultant contracts to
provide any part ofthe Services, including subcontractors and subconsultants of
‘any tier, whether or not in privity with Consultant.

terpretation

(@) The term “imetude” (in all its forms) means “include, without limitation”
unless the context clearly states otherwise,

(b) Allreferences in this Agreement to Articles, Sections or Exhibits, unless
otherwise expressed or indicated are to the Articles, Sections or Exhibits
of this Agreement.

(©) Words importing persons include firms, associations, partnerships, trusts,
corporations and other legal entities, including public bodies, as well as
natural persons.

(@) Any headings preceding the text ofthe Articles and Sections of this
Agreement, and any table of contents of marginal notes appended to it, are
solely for convenience or reference and do not constitute a part ofthis
‘Agreement, nor do they affect the meaning, construction or effect of this
‘Agreement.

(©) Words importing the singular include the plural and vice versa. Words of
the masculine gender include the correlative words of the feminine and

neuter genders.

(0) Allreferences to a number of days mean calendar days, unless indicated
‘otherwise.

‘Order of Precedence of Component Parts

Im the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the terms set forth in Article
| through Article 12 ofthis Agreement and the terms set forth in Exhibit 1
through Exhibit 4 including the Attachments to the Exhibits, the terms and
provisions contained in Article 1 through Article 12 of this Agreement will take

Revised Samuary 14, 2004 (74) 2
fn ni gig ee

ARTICLE 2.

24

22

Revised Jamary

precedence over the terms and provisions contained in Exhibit | through Exhibit 4
‘except to the extent such terms and provisions are more favorable to the City.

Article | through Article 12 govern the legal relationship between the parties and
‘Exhibit and Exhibit 2 describe the Services Consultant is to perform under this
‘Agreement, set forth the Key Personnel, set forth the time limits for Consultant's
performance, set forth the insurance requirements forthe project, and st forth the
compensation schedule for Consultant. Asa result, the City and Consultant agree
that any terms or matters set forth in ether Exhibit | oF Exhibit 2, including the
‘Attachments tothe Exhibit, that do not exclusively pertain to defining the
Services Consultant isto perform, the Key Personne. the time limits for
Consulta’ performance, the insurance requirements and the compensation
‘schedule for Consultant are of no effect as to this Agreement and, regardless of
‘whether or not the City approves such terms o matters, are not binding onthe
City, except to the extent that they would diminish the City's obligations under
this Agreement or increase Consultant's obligations or liabilities under this
Agreement.

DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF CONSULTANT
Scope of Services

‘Consultant must provide the Services described in Exhibit 1, Scope of Services
‘and Schedule for Performance, and any and all work necessary to complete them
‘or carry them out fully and tothe standard of performance required in this
Agreement. Consultant must provide the Services in accordance with the
standards of performance set forth in Section 2.3. Consultant must provide and
‘maintain at Consultant's own expense, the insurance coverages and requirements
specified in Exhibit 1

Deliverables

In carying out its Services, Consultant must prepare or provide to the City various
Deliverables. “Deliverables” include work product, such as designs, plans and
specifications, written reviews, recommendations, reports and analyses, produced
by Consultant for the City.

‘The City may reject Deliverables that do not include relevant information or data,
‘or do not include all documents or other materials specified in this Agreement or
reasonably necessary forthe purpose for which the City made this Agreement or
for which the City intends to use the Deliverables, Ifthe City determines that
Consultant has failed to comply withthe foregoing standards, it has 30 days from

14, 200674) 3

re Aa Og gn

23

the discovery o notify Consultant ofits failure. If Consultant does not correct the
failure, if it is possible to do so, within 30 days after receipt of notice from the
‘Cisj specifying the failure, then the City, by writen notice, may treat the failure as
8 default ofthis Agreement under Section 8.1

Partial or incomplete Deliverables may be accepted for review only when required
fora specific and well-defined purpose for the benefit ofthe City and when
‘consented to in advance by the City. Such Deliverables will not be considered as
‘satisfying the requirements ofthis Agreement and partial or incomplete
Deliverables in no way relieve Consultant ofits commitments under this
Agreement.

Standard of Performance

‘Consultant must perform all Services required of it under this Agreement with
that degree of skill, care and diligence normally shown by a consultant it
services of a scope and purpose and magnitude comparable with the nature of the
Services to be provided under this Agreement.

‘Consultant must assure that all Services that require the exercise of professional
Skills or judgment are accomplished by professionals qualified and competent in
the applicable discipline and appropriately licensed, if required by law.
Consultant must provide copies of any such licenses, Consultant remains
responsible for the professional and technical accuracy of all Services ot
Deliverables furnished, whether by Consultant or its Subcontractors or others on.
its behalf. All Deliverables must be prepared in a form and content satisfactory to
the Department and delivered in a timely manner consistent with the requirements
of this Agreement.

Hf Consultant fails to comply with the foregoing standards, Consultant must
perform again, at its own expense, all Services required to be re-performed as a
director indirect result ofthat failure. Any review, approval, acceptance or
payment for any of the Services by the City does not relieve Consultant of its
responsibility forthe professional skill and care and technical accuracy of its
‘Services and Deliverables. This provision in no way limits the City’s rights
‘against Consultant either under this Agreement, et law or in equity.

Revised Samuary 14, 2004 (TA) 4
Prt ocd i Ep et

24

Personnel

(a> Adequate Staffing

(O)

©

‘Consultant must, upon receiving a fully executed copy of this Agreement,
assign and maintain during the term of this Agreement and any exten:
of it an adequate staff of competent personnel that is fully equipped,
licensed as appropriate, available as needed, qualified and assigned to
Perform the Services. Consultant must include among its staff the Key
Personnel and positions as identified below. The level of staffing may be
revised from time to time by notice in writing from Consultant to the City
‘and with written consent ofthe City, which consent the City will not
withhold unreasonably. If the City fils to object tothe revision within 14
days after receiving the notice, then the revision will be considered
accepted by the City.

Key Personnel

Consultant must not reassign or replace Key Personnel without the writen
Consent of the City, which consent the City will not unreasonably
withhold. "Key Personnel” means those job tiles and the persons
assigned to those positions in accordance withthe provisions of this
Section 2.4(b), and set forth in Exhibit I, Attachment I-A . The
Department may at anytime in writing notify Consultant that the City will
‘no longer accept performance of Services under this Agreement by one or
‘more Key Personnel listed. Upon that notice Consultant must immediately
suspend the services ofthe key person or persons and must replace him or
hher or them in accordance with the terms ofthis Agreement.

Salaries and Wages

‘Consultant and Subcontractors must pay all salaries and wages due all
employees performing Services under this Agreement unconditionally and
at least once a month without deduction or rebate on any account, except
‘only for those payroll deductions that are mandatory by law o are
‘permitted under applicable law and regulations. If inthe performance of
this Agreement Consultant underpays any such salaries or wages, the
Comptroller forthe City may withhold, out of payments due to Consultant,
‘an amount sufficient to pay to employees underpaid the difference between
the salaries or wages required to be paid under this Agreement and the
salaries or wages actualy paid these employees for the total number of
hours worked. The amounts withheld may be disbursed by the

Revised Saruary 14,2004 (74) 5
‘Comptroller for and on account of Consultant tothe respective employees
to whom they are due. The parties acknowledge that this Section 2.4(¢) is

= solely forthe benefit of the City and that it does not grant any third party
beneficiary rights

2S Indemnification

@

)

©

‘Consultant must defend, indemnify, keep and hold harmless the Cit
officers, representatives, clected and appointed officials, agents and
‘employees from and against any and all Losses, including those related to:

pits

(injury, death or damage of orto any person or property;

ii) any infringement or violation of any property right (including any
patent, trademark or copyright);

(Gil) Consultant's failure to perform or cause to be performed
Consultant's covenants and obligations as and when required under
this Agreement, including Consultants failure to perform its
obligations to any Subcontractor;

(Gv) the City’s exercise ofits rights and remedies under Sect
this Agreement; and

820f

(©) injures oor death of any employes of Consultant or any
Subcontractor under any workers cmpensation sat.

"Losses" means, individually and collectively, liabilities of every kind,
including losses, damages and reasonable costs, payments and expenses
(suchas, but not limited to, court costs and reasonable atoreys fees and
disbursements), claims, demands, actions, suits, proceedings, judgments or
settlements, any or all of which in any way arise out of or relat to
‘Consultants breach of this Agreement orto Consultants negligent or
‘otherwise wrongful acts or omissions of those o it officers, agents,
employes, consultants, Subcontractors or licensees.

‘Consultant's obligations to indemnify, keep, and hold harmless the City,
its officers, representatives, elected and appointed officials, agents and
‘employees from and against any and all Losses excludes that portion of
Losses caused by any act, error or omission on the part ofthe particular
City officers), representatives), elected and appointed offical(s), agent(s)
‘or employee(s) seeking indemnification under this Section 2.5 if

Revived Sarwar 14,2004 (74) 6
aD Egy

26

©

C)

Consultant's indemnification would violate the provisions of the
Construction Contract Indemnification for Negligence Act, 740 ILCS
3510.01 er seg

At the City Corporation Counsel's option, Consultant, subject to Section
2.5(¢) above, must defend all suits brought upon all such Losses and must
ay all costs and expenses incidental to them, but the City has the right, at
‘option, to participate, at its own cost, inthe defense of any suit, without
relieving Consultant of any ofits obligations under this Agreement. Any
settlement must be made only withthe prior writen consent ofthe City
Corporation Counsel, ifthe settlement requires any action on the part of
the City

To the extent permissible by law, Consultant waives any limits to the
amount of its obligations to indemnify, defend or contribute to any sums
ddue under any Losses, including any claim by any employee of Consultant
that may be subject to the Workers Compensation Act, 820 ILCS 305/1 er
seq. or any other related law or judicial decision (such as, Koreck!v.
Cyclops Welding Corporation, 146 Il 24 185 (1991). The City,
however, does not waive any limitations it may have on its lability under
the Illinois Workers Compensation Act, the Illinois Pension Code, any
other statute or judicial decision

‘The indemnities in this section survive expiration or termination of this
‘Agreement for matters occurring or arising during the term of this
‘Agreement or as the result of or during Consultant's performance of
Services beyond the term. Consultant acknowledges thatthe requirements
‘et forth in this section to indemnify, keep and save harmless and defend
the City are apart from and not limited by Consultant’ duties under this
‘Agreement, including the insurance requirements in Exhibit] ofthis
‘Agreement.

‘Ownership of Documents

All Deliverables, data, findings or information in any form prepared, assembled or
‘encountered by of provided to Consultant under this Agreement are property of
the City, including, as further described in Section 2.7 below, all copyrights
inherent in them or their preparation. During performance ofits Services,
Consultant is responsible for any loss or damage to the Deliverables, data,
findings or information while in Consultant's or any Subcontractors possession,
‘Any such lost or damaged Deliverables, data, findings or information must be
restored atthe expense of Consultant. Ifnot restorable, Consultant must bear the

Revived January I, 2004 (4) U
27

‘cost of replacement and of any loss suffered by the City on account of the
destruction, as provided in Section 2.5.

Copyright Ownership

‘Consultant and the City intend that, to the extent permi by law, the
Deliverables to be produced by Consultant atthe Citys instance and expense
under this Agreement are conclusively deemed "works made for hire” within the
meaning and purview of Section 101 ofthe United States Copyright Act, 17
USC. §101 et seq, and tat the City willbe the sole copyright nner ofthe
Deliverables and of ll aspects, elements and components of them in which
copyright can subsist and of alright to apply for copyright registration or
rosecute any claim of ntingement

To the extent that any Deliverable does not qualify as a "work made for hire,”
Consultant hereby irrevocably grants, conveys, bargains, sells, assigns, transfers
‘and delivers to the City, its successors and assigns, all right, title and interest in
and to the copyrights and all U.S. and foreign copyright registrations, copyright
applications and copyright renewals for them, and other intangible, intellectual
Property embodied in or pertaining to the Deliverables prepared for the City under
this Agreement, and all goodwill relating to them, free and clear of any liens,
claims or other encumbrances, to the fullest extent permitted by law. Consultant
Will, and will eause all of its Subcontractors, employees, agents and other persons
‘thin ts control to, execute all document and perform all acts thatthe Cty may
‘reasonably request in order to assist the City in perfecting its rights in and to the
‘copyright relating to the Deliverables, at the sole expense of the City. Consultant
‘warrants tothe City its successors and assigns, that on the date of transfer
Consultant isthe lawful owner of good and marketable ttle in and to the
copyrights forthe Deliverables and has the legal rights to fully assign them.

‘copyrights and that it has not granted and will not grant any licenses exclusive or
onexclusive, to any other party, and that it is not a party to any other agreements
‘or subject to any other restrictions with respect tothe Deliverables. ‘Consultant
‘warrants thatthe Deliverables are complete, entire and comprehensive within the
standard of performance under Section 2.3 of this Agreement and that the
Deliverables constitute a work of original authorship. The Cty will not reuse the
Deliverables to build other projects, without the written consent of Consultant,

‘Visual Artists Rights Act Waiver

‘Consultant waives any and al rights, in any work of visual art that may be
provided pursuant to this Agreement, that may be granted or conferred under

Revised January 14,2004 TH) 8
rin red ope Set

Section 106A and Section 113 of the United States Copyright Act (17 U.S.C. §
101 gt sea) (the "Copyright Act")

)

Records

(Consultant must deliver or cause tobe delivered othe City all
documents, including all Deliverables prepared forthe Cty under
the terms ofthis Agreement, tothe City promply in accordance
with the time limits prescribed in this Agreement, and if no time
limit is specified, then upon reasonable demand for them or upon
termination or completion ofthe Services under this Agreement.
Inthe event ofthe failure by Consultant to make such delivery
‘upon demand, then and in that event, Consultant must pay 10 the

City any damages the City may sustain by reason of Consultant's
failure.

i) Consultant must maintain any such records including Deliverables
‘not delivered to the City or demanded by the City for a period of 5
‘years after the final payment made in connection with this
‘Agreement. Consultant must not dispose of such documents
following the expiration of this period without notification of and.
‘written approval from the City in accordance with Article 10.

Audits

(@ Consultant and any of Consultants Subcontractors must furnish the
Department with all information that may be requested pertaining.
to the performance and cost of the Services. Consultant must
‘maintain records showing actual ime devoted and costs incurred.
Consultant must keep books, documents, paper, records and
‘accounts in connection with the Services open to audit, inspection,
copying, abstracting and transcription and must make these records
available to the City and any other interested governmental agency,
at reasonable times during the performance of its Services

i) To the extent that Consultant conducts any business operations
separate and apart from the Services required under this Agreement
using, for example, personnel, equipment, supplies or facilites also
sed in connection with this Agreement, then Consultant must
‘maintain and make similarly available tothe City detailed records

Revised Jamary 1, 2004 (4) 9
@w)

o)

‘Revised Samaary 14, 2004 (TA)

supporting Consultan’ allocation to this Agreement ofthe costs
and expenses attributable to any such shared usages.

Consultant must maintain its books, records, documents and other
‘evidence and adopt accounting procedures and practices sufficient
to reflect properly all costs of whatever nature claimed to have
been incurred and anticipated to be incurred for or in connection
with the performance of this Agreement. This system of
accounting must be in accordance with generally accepted
aceounting principles and practices, consistently applied
throughout.

‘No provision in this Agreement granting the City a right of access
to records and documents is intended to impair, limit or affect any
right of access to such records and documents which the City
‘would have had in the absence of such provisions

‘The City may inits sole discretion audit the records of Consultant
‘or its Subcontractors or both at any time during the term of this
‘Agreement or within five years after the Agreement ends, in
‘connection with the goods, work, or services provided under this
‘Agreement. Each calendar year or patil calendar year
considered an “audited period." If, as a result of such an a
determined that Consultant or any of its Subcontractors has
‘overcharged the City in the audited period, the Cty will notify
Consultant. Consultant must then promptly reimburse the City for
‘any amounts the City has paid Consultant due to the overcharges
‘and also some or all ofthe cost ofthe audit, as follows:

‘A. Ifthe audit has revealed overcharges to the City
representing less than 5% of the total value, based on the
“Agreement prices, of the goods, work, of services provided
in the audited period, then the Consultant must reimburse
the City for 50% of the cost of the audit and 50% of the
cost of each subsequent audit thatthe City conducts;

If, however, the audit has revealed overcharges tothe City
representing 5% or more of the total value, based on the
‘Agreement prices, ofthe goods, work, or services provided
in the audited period, then Consultant must reimburse the
City forthe full cost ofthe audit and of each subsequent
audit

10
lant ete Dp gm Hn

Failure of Consultant to reimburse the City in accordance with subsection
Aoor B above is an event of default under this Agreement, and Consultant
will be liable for all ofthe City’s costs of collection, including any court
costs and attorneys! fees.

2.10 Confidentiality

@

)

©

Al Deliverables and reports, data, findings or information in any form
prepared, assembled or encountered by or provided by Consultant under
‘this Agreement are property of the City and are confidential, except as
specifically authorized in this Agreement or as may be required by law:
‘Consultant must not allow the Deliverables to be made available to any
cther individual or organization without the prior written consent ofthe
City. Further, all documents and other information provided to Consultant
by the City ae confidential and must not be made available to any other
individual or organization without the prior writen consent ofthe City
Consultant must implement such measures as may be necessary to ensure
that its staff and its Subcontractors are bound by the confidentiality
provisions inthis Agreement.

Consultant must not issue any publicity news releases or grant pres
interviews, and except as may be required bylaw during or after the
performance of this Agreement, disseminate any information regarding its
‘Services or the project to which the Services pertain without the prior
writen consent ofthe Commissioner

If Consultant is presented with a request for documents by any
‘administrative agency or with a subpoena duces tecum regarding any
records, data or documents which may be in Consultants possession by
reason of this Agreement, Consultant must immediately give notice to the
‘Commissioner and the Corporation Counsel forthe City with the
understanding thatthe ity will have the opportunity to contest such
process by any means available to it before the records, data or documents
‘are submitted to a court or other third party. Consultan, however, isnot
‘obligated to withhold the delivery beyond the time ordered by the court or
administrative agency, unless the subpoena or request is quashed or the
time to produce is otherwise extended.

2.11 Assignments and Subcontracts

Consultant must not assign, delegate or otherwise transfer all or any part of its
rights or obligations under this Agreement or any part of it, unless otherwise

Revised January 14, 2004 (TA) n
tl me On nny Sn
provided for in this Agreement or without the express written consent of the Chief
Procurement Officer and the Department. The absence of such a provision
‘written consent voids the attempted assignment, delegation or transfer and.
effect as to the Services or this Agreement. No approvals given by the Chief
Procurement Officer operate to relieve Consultant of any of its obligations or
lites under this Agreement.

of no

All subcontracts and all approvals of Subcontractors are, regardless of their form,
‘considered conditioned upon performance by the Subcontractor in accordance
with the terms and conditions ofthis Agreement. If any Subcontractor fails to
‘observe or perform the terms and conditions of this Agreement to the satisfaction
‘of the Department, the ity has the absolute right upon written notification to
immediately rescind approval and to require the performance ofthis Agreement
by Consultant personally o through any other City-approved Subcontractor. Any
approval forthe use of Subcontractors in the performance of the Services under
this Agreement under no circumstances operates to relieve Consultant of any ofits
‘obligations oF liabilities under this Agreement.

Consultant, upon entering into any agreement with a Subcontractor, must furnish
‘upon request of the Chief Procurement Officer or the Department a copy of its
agreement. All subcontracts must contain provisions that require the Services be
performed in strict accordance with the requirements of this Agreement, provi
that the Subcontractors are subject to all the terms of this Agreement and are
subject to the approval ofthe Department and the Chief Procurement Officer. If
the agreements do not prejudice any of the City's rights under this Agreement,
‘such agreements may contain different provisions than are provided inthis
Agreement with respect to extensions of schedule, time of completion, payments,
‘guarantees and matters not affecting the quality of the Services

Consultant must not transfer or assign any funds or claims due or to become due
under this Agreement without the prior written approval of the Chief Procurement
Officer. The attempted transferor assignment of any funds, either in whole or in
‘or any interest in them, which are due orto become due to Consultant under
this Agreement, without such prior written approval, has no effect upon the City.

Under the Municipal Code of Chicago, ch. 2-92, Section 2-92-245, the Chief
Procurement Officer may make direct payments to Subcontractors for Services
Performed under this Agreement. Any such payment has the same effect as ifthe
Cty had paid Consultant that amount directly. Such payment by the Cty to
‘Consultant's Subcontractor under no circumstances operates to relieve Consultant
of any ofits obligations or liabilities under this Agreement. This section is solely
for the benefit of the City and does not grant any third party beneficiary rights.

Revised Jamuary I, 2004 TA) 2
ra Sei ay St

ARTICLE 3. TIME LIMITS FOR PERFORMANCE

‘Schedule for Performance

‘This Agreement takes effect as of the date of its execution by the City (“Effective
Date’ )which is set forth in the preamble and will continue for 36 months, or until
the Agreement is terminated in accordance with its terms, whichever oceurs fist.
‘The Agreement may be extended for up to 2 additional one-year periods in
accordance with Section 3.3

32 Timeliness of Performance

@

o)

‘Consultant must perform the Services as expeditiously as is consistent
‘with professional skill and care and must provide the Services and
Deliverables within the schedule required under Exhibit | of this
Agreement.

Neither Consultant nor Consultant's agents, employees or Subcontractors
‘are entitled to any damages from the City, nor is any party entitled to be
reimbursed by the City, for damages, charges or other losses or expenses
incurred by Consultant by reason of delays or hindrances in the
performance of the Services, whether or not caused by the City.

33. Agreement Extension Option

The Chief Procurement Officer may at any time before this Agreement expires
lect to extend this Agreement for up to 2_ additional one-year periods under the
‘same terms and conditions as this original Agreement, except as provided
otherwise in this Agreement, by notice in writing to Consultant,

ARTICLE 4. COMPENSATION

41 Basis of Payment

‘The City will compensate Consultant according to the Schedule of Compensation
contained in Exhibit 2 of this Agreement for the successful completion of the
Services,

Notwithstanding anything in the Schedule of Compensation set forth in Exhibit 2
‘othe contrary, Consultant's compensation under this Agreement is limited to

Revised January 4, 2004 (TA) 13
Pent me ii ag Sen

42

43

those amounts allowable and allocable to this Agreement under 48 C.F.R. Part 31,
Subpart 31.6 (the Federal Acquisition Regulation), OMB Circular A-87
(ngorporated by reference into 48 C.F.R. Part 31, Subpart 31.6), and the cost
principles se forth in 48 C.F.R. Part 31, Subpart 31.2, but only to the extent that
the cost principles in Subpart 31.2 do not conflict with the terms of 48 CFR. Pat
31, Subpart 31.6 and OMB Circular A-87. To the extent that an audit reveals that
Consultant has received payment in excess of such amounts, the City may offset,
such excess payments against any future peyments due to Consultant and, if no
future payments are due or if future payments are less than such excess,
Consultant must promptly refund the amount of the excess payments tothe City.

Method of Payment

Consultant must submit monthly invoices tothe City for labor and other direct
and indirect costs as billed, as outlined in the Schedule of Compensation in
Exhibit2. The invoices must be signed, dated, reference the City contract number
‘and name, and must be in such other detail as the City requests. If Consultant has
‘more than one agreement with the City, Consultant must prepare and submit
separate invoices for each agreement. Consultant must not submit invoices for
less than $500 unless a particular invoice is for last payment related to closeout of
the Services.

‘The City will process payment within 60 days after receipt of invoices and all
supporting documentation necessary forthe City to verify the Services provided
under this Agreement,

Criteria for Payment

The reasonableness, allocability, and allowability of any costs and expenses
charged by Consultant under this Agreement will be determined by the Chief
Procurement Officer and the Commissioner in their sole discretion.

In the event of a dispute between Consultant and the City as to whether any
particular charge will be paid, or as to whether the amount of such charge is
reasonable, allocable to the Services, or allowable, Consultant must, and the
Department may, jointly or individually, refer such dispute tothe Chief
Procurement Officer for resolution in accordance withthe Disputes section ofthis
Agreement. The City will not withhold payment for undisputed sums on such
invoice while a dispute is being resolved. All invoice disputes will be handled as
described in Section B.3 of Exhibit 2.

Revised January 14, 2004 (TA) 4
tema gg St
44° Funding

The.source of funds for payments under this Agreement is the Fund Number set
fofth in Exhibit2. Payments under this Agreement will not be made or due to.
Consultant in excess ofthe dollar amount se forth in Exhibit? without a written
amendment in accordance with Section 9.3.

48° Non-Appropriation

{no funds or insufficient funds are appropriated and budgeted in any fiscal period
ofthe City for payments to be made under this Agreement, then the City wil

‘made to Consultant except that no payments will be made ot due to Consultant
Under this Agreement beyond those amounts appropriated and budgeted by the
City to fund payments under this Agreement.

ARTICLE 5. DISPUTES.

Except as otherwise provided inthis Agreement, Consultant mus and the Commissioner may
bring any dispute conceming a question of fact arising under this Agreement whiel
disposed of to the Chief Procurement Officer for decisi

law writ of certiorati

ARTICLE 6. COMPLIANCE WITH ALL LAWS
6.1 Compliance with All Laws Generally
(@) Consultant must observe and comply with all applicable federal, state,
county and municipal laws, statutes, ordinances and executive orders, in

effect now or later and whether or not they appear in this Agreement,
including those set forth in this Article 6, and Consultant must pay ail

Revised January 14,2004 (TA) 1s
Pet Ae ni egy Sn

)

taxes and obtain all licenses, certificates and other authorizations required
by them. Consultant must require all Subcontractors to do so also.
Consultant must have filed, within 1 year prior tothe Effective Date, an
‘executed Economic Disclosure Statement and Affidavit "Disclosure
AMidavit") with the Chief Procurement Officer and must execute a No
‘Changes Affidavit and a Disclosure of Retained Parties in the forms
incorporated into this Agreement as Exhibit 4. Notwithstanding
acceptance by the City ofthe Disclosure A idavit, failure of the
Disclosure Affidavit to include all information required under the
Municipal Code renders this Agreement voidable atthe option ofthe City.

Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, references to
4 statute or law are considered to be a reference to (i) the statute or law as
itmay be amended from time to time; (i) all regulations and rules
pertaining to or promulgated pursuant tothe statute or law; and (i) all
Future statutes, laws, regulations, rules and executive orders pertaining to
the same or similar subject mater.

62 Nondiscrimination

@

Consultant

|n performing its Services under this Agreement, Consultant must comply
with applicable laws prohibiting discrimination against individuals and
groups.

@ Federal Requirements

In performing its Services under this Agreement, Consultant must
‘not engage in unlawful employment practices, such as (1) failing or
refusing to hire or discharging any individual, or otherwise
discriminating against any individual with respect to compensation
‘or the terms, conditions, or privileges ofthe individual's
‘employment, because ofthe individuals race, color, religion, sex,
age, handicap/disability or national origin; or (2) limiting,
segregating or classifying Consultant's employees or applicants for
‘employment in any way that would deprive or tend to deprive any
individual of employment opportunites or otherwise adversely
affect the individual's status as an employee, because ofthe
individua’s race, color, religion, sex, age, handicapl/disability or
national origin.

‘Revised January 14,2008 (74) 16
oy

Gi)

Revised January 14, 2006 (TA)

Consultant must comply with, and the procedures Consultant
utilizes and the Services Consultant provides under this Agreement
‘must comply with, the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. see.
2000e et seq. (1981), as amended and the Civil Rights Act of 1991,
PLL. 102-166. Attention is called to: Exec. Order No. 11246, 30
Fed, Reg. 12,319 (1965), reprinted in 42 U.S.C. 2000e note, as
amended by Exec. Order No: 11375, 32 Fed. Reg. 14,303 (1967)
and by Exec. Order No. 12086, 43 Fed. Reg, 46,501 (1978); Age
Diserimination Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6101-6106 (1981); Age

Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 U.S.C. §§ 793-794 (1981);
‘Americans with Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C. §12101 er seq.; 41
CER, Part 60 et seq. (190); Drug Abuse Office and Treatment
‘Act of 1972, PLL. 92-255, as amended; and Comprehensive
Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism Prevention Act of 1970, P.L. 91-
616, as amended; and all other applicable federal statutes,
regulations and other laws,

State Requirements

Consultant must comply with, andthe procedures Consultant
Utlizes and the Services Consultant provides under this

‘must comply with, the linois Human Rights Act, 775 ILCS 5/1-
101 et seq. (1990), as amended and any rules and regulations
promulgated in accordance with i, including the Equal
Employment Opportunity Clause, 44 Il. Admin. Code § 750
“Appendix A. Furthermore, Consultant must comply with the
Public Works Employment Discrimination Act, 775 ILCS 10/0.01
et seq, (1990), a8 amended; and all other applicable state statutes,
regulations and other laws.

City Requirements

Consultant must comply with, andthe procedures Consultant
utilizes and the Services Consultant provides under this Agreement
‘must comply with, the Chicago Human Rights Ordinance, ch. 2-
160, Section 2-160-010 er seq. ofthe Municipal Code of Chicago
(1990), as amended, and all other applicable City ordinances and
rules. Further, Consultant must furnish and must cause each of its
‘Subcontractor(s) to furnish such reports and information as
requested by the Chicago Commission on Human Relations.

7
nde gen Set

64

(b) Subcontractors

= Consultant must incorporate this Section 6.2 by reference in all agreements

‘entered into with Subcontractors and labor organizations that furnish
skilled, unskilled and craft union skilled labor, or any other services in
‘connection with this Agreement.

‘Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and Other Laws
Concerning Accessibility

Consultant covenants that all designs, plans and drawings produced or utilized
under this Agreement will address and comply with all federal, state and local
laws and regulations regarding accessibility standards for persons with disabilities
or environmentally limited persons including the following: the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C. § 1210 et seq. and the Americans with
Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines for Buildings and Facilities
(CADAAG’); the Architectural Barriers Act, Pub, L. 90-480 (1968), and the
Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards ("URAS"); and the Iinois
Environmental Barriers Act, 410 ILCS 25/1 et seg., and all regulations
promulgated thereunder , see Ilinois Administrative Code, Title 71, Chapter 1,
Section 400.110. if the above standards are inconsistent, Consultant must assure
‘that its designs, plans, and drawings comply with the standard providing the
‘greatest accessibility. Also, Consultant must, prior to construction, review the
plans and specifications to insure compliance with these standards. If Consultant
fails to comply with the foregoing standards, the City may, without limiting any of
its remedies set forth in Section 8.2 or otherwise available at law, in equity or by
statute, require Consultant to perform again, at no expense, all Services required
to be reperformed as a director indirect result of such failure.

Inspector General

It's the duty of any bidder, proposer or Consultant, ll Subcontractors, every
applicant for certification of eligibility fora City contrac or program, and all
officers, directors, agents, partners and employees of any bidder, proposer,
‘Consultant, Subcontractor or such applicant to cooperate withthe Inspector
General in any investigation or hearing undertaken pursuant to Chapter 2-56 of the
Municipal Code of Chicago. Consultant understands and will abide by all
provisions of Chapter 2-56 of the Municipal Code of Chicago. All subcontracts
‘must inform Subcontractors of the provision and require understanding and
‘compliance with it.

Revised Jamaary 14,2004 (TA) 18
65 Business Relationships with Elected Officials

Pursuant to Section 2-156-030(b) of the Municipal Code of the Cty of Chicago, it
is illegal for any elected official ofthe City, or any person acting atthe direction
of such offical, to contact, either orally or in writing, any other City official or
‘employee with respect to any matter involving any person with whom the elected
offical has @ business relationship, or to participate in any discussion in any City
‘Council committee hearing or in any City Council meeting orto vote on any
‘matter involving the person with whom an elected official has a business
‘lationship. Violation of Section 2-156-030(b) by any elected official with
respect to this Agreement is grounds for termination of this Agreement. The term
‘business relationship is defined as set forth in Section 2-156-080 of the Municipal
Code of Chicago.

Section 2-156-080 defines a "business relationship" as any contractual or other
private business dealing of an official, or his or her spouse, or of any entity in
Which an official or his or her spouse has a financial interest, with a person or
entity which entitles an official to compensation or payment in the amount of |
$2,500 or more in a calendar year, provided, however, a financial interest shall not
include: () any ownership through purchase at fair market value or inheritance of
less than one percent ofthe share of a corporation, or any corporate subsidiary,
parent or affiliate thereof, regardless of the value of or dividends on such shares, if
such shares are registered on a securities exchange pursuant tothe Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; (i) the authorized compensation paid to an
official or employee for his office or employment; (ii) any economic benefit
provided equally to all residents ofthe City; (iv) atime or demand deposit ina
financial institution; or (¥) an endowment or insurance policy of annuity contract
purchased from an insurance company. A "contractual or other private
business dealing” shall not include any employment relationship of an official's
spouse with an entity when such spouse has no discretion concerning or input
relating tothe relationship between that entity and the City

646 Chicago "Living Wage" Ordinance

(@) Section 2-92-610 of the Municipal Code of Chicago provides for a living wage for
certain categories of workers employed in the performance of City contracts,
specifically non-City employed security guards, parking attendants, day laborers,
hhome and health care workers, cashiers, elevator operators, custodial workers and
clerical workers "Covered Employees"). Accordingly, pursuant to Section
292-610 and regulations promulgated under it:

(If Consultant has 25 or more full-time employees, and

Revised January 1, 2004 (74) 19
(O)

©

O)

©

Gi) Ifatany time during the performance of this Agreement,
‘Consultant and/or any Subcontractor or any other entity that provides any portion
of the Services (collectively "Performing Parties") uses 25 or more full-time
seCurty guards, or any number of other full-time Covered Employees, then

il) __ Consultant must pay its Covered Employees, and must assure that
all other Performing Parties pay their Covered Employees, not less than the
‘minimum hourly rate as determined in accordance with this provision (the "Base
Wage’) for all Services performed under this Agreement.

Consultant's obligation to pay, and to assure payment of, the Base Wage will
begin at any time during the term of this Agreement when the conditions set forth
) above are met, and will continue until the end of the term of

AAs of July 1, 2003, the Base Wage became $9.20, and each July I thereafter, the
Base Wage will be adjusted, using the most recent federal poverty guidelines for a
family of four as published annually by the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services, to constitute the following: the poverty guidelines fora family of four
divided by 2000 hours or the current base wage, whichever is higher. At all times
during the term of this Agreement, Consultant and all other Performing Parties
‘must pay the Base Wage (as adjusted in accordance with the above). Ifthe
payment of prevailing wages is required for Services done under this Agreement,
and the prevailing wages for Covered Employees are higher than the Base Wage,
then Consultant and all other Performing Parties must pay the prevailing wage
rates.

Consultant must include provisions in all subcontracts requiring its
Subcontractors to pay the Base Wage to Covered Employees. Consultant agrees
to provide the City with documentation acceptable to the Chief Procurement
Officer demonstrating that all Covered Employees, whether employed by
Consultant or by a Subcontractor, hve been paid the Base Wage, upon the City’s
request for such documentation. The City may independently audit Consultant
and/or Subcontractors to verify compliance with ths section. Failure to comply
with the requirements of this section will be an event of default under this
‘Agreement, and further, failure to comply may result in ineligibility for any award
of a City contract or subcontract for up to 3 years.

‘Not-for-Profit Corporations: If Consultant isa corporation having federal tax-
‘exempt status under Section $01(c)(3) ofthe Intemal Revenue Code and is,
‘recognized under Illinois not-for-profit law, then the provisions of subsections (a)
through (4) above do not apply.

Revised January 14, 2004 (74) 20
67 Deemed Inclusion

Provisions required by law, ordinances, rules, regulations, or executive orders to
bbe inserted in this Agreement are deemed inserted in this Agreement whether or
‘ot they appear in this Agreement or, upon application by either party, this
Agreement will be amended to make the insertion; however, in no event will the
failure to insert the provisions before or after this Agreement is signed prevent its
‘enforcement.

ARTICLE 7. SPECIAL CONDITIONS
7A Warranties and Represeatations
In connection with signing and carrying out this Agreement, Consultant:

(2) warrants that Consultant is appropriately licensed under Illinois law to
perform the Services required under this Agreement and will perform no
‘Services for which a professional license is required by law and for which
Consultant is not appropriately licensed;

(©) warrants itis financially solvent; it and each of its employees, agents and
Subcontractors are competent to perform the Services required under this
‘Agreement; and Consultant is legally authorized to execute and perform or
‘cause to be performed this Agreement under the terms and conditions
stated in this Agreement;

(©) warrants that it will not knowingly use the services of any ineligible
consultant or Subcontractor for any purpose in the performance of its
‘Services under this Agreement;

(@ warrants that Consultant isnot in default atthe time this Agreement is
signed, and has not been deemed by the Chief Procurement Officer to
have, within 5 years immediately preceding the date of this Agreement,
‘been found to be in default on any contract awarded by the City of
(Chicago, and has obtained warranties from its Subcontractors substantially
similar in form and substance;

(©) represents that it has carefully examined and analyzed the provisions and
requirements ofthis Agreement; it understands the nature of the Services
required; from its own analysis it has satisfied itself as to the nature of all,
‘things needed for the performance of this Agreement; this Agreement is

‘Revised January 14, 2004 (TA) 2
feasible of performance in accordance with all ofits provisions and
requirements, and Consultant warrants it can and will perform, or eause to

= be performed, the Services in strict accordance withthe provisions and
requirements of this Agreement;

(represents that Consultant and, to the best ofits knowiedge, its
Subcontractor are not in violation of the provisions of Section 2-92-320
of Chapter 2-92 of the Municipal Code of Chicago, and in connection with
{it and additionally in connection with the linois Criminal Code, 720,
ILCS $/33E as amended, and the Hlinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/11-
421-1; and

(@) acknowledges that any certification, affidavit or acknowledgment made
underoath in connection with this Agreement is made under penalty of.
perjury and, if false, is also cause for termination under Sections 8.1 and
8.3 of this Agreement.

72 Ethics

(@ _nooofficer, agent or employee of the City is employed by
Consultant or has a financial interest directly or indirectly in this
‘Agreement or the compensation to be paid under this Agreement
except as may be permitted in writing by the Board of Ethics
established under the Municipal Code of Chicago (Chapter 2-156).

(i) no payment, gratuity or offer of employment will be made in
‘connection with this Agreement by or on behalf of any
Subcontractors to the prime Consultant or higher tier
Subcontractors or anyone associated with them, as an inducement,
for the award of a subcontractor order.

(©) Consultant further acknowledges that any Agreement entered into,

negotiated or performed in violation of any ofthe provisions of Chapter 2-
156 is voidable as to the City.

Revised Jamvary 14,2004 (TA) 2
ln cd eg ape eee

73° Joint and Several Liability

If Consultant, or its successors or assigns, if any, is comprised of more than one
individual or other legal entity (or a combination of them), then under this
Agreement, each and without limitation every obligation or undertaking in this
Agreement tobe fulfilled or performed by Consultant is te joint and several
obligation or undertaking of each such individual or other legal entity,

74 Business Documents

At the request ofthe City, Consultant must provide copies ofits latest articles of
incorporation, by-laws and resolutions, or partnership or joint venture agreement,
as applicable.

78 Conflicts of Interest

(@) No member of the governing body of the City or other unit of government
‘and no other officer, employee or agent ofthe City or other unit of
‘government who exercises any functions or responsibilities in connection
withthe Services to which this Agreement pertains is permitted to have
‘any personal interest, director indirect, in this Agreement. No member of
‘or delegate to the Congress of the United States or the Illinois General
‘Assembly and no alderman of the City of City employee is allowed to be
admitted to any share or part of this Agreement or to any financial benefit
to arise from it.

(©) Consultant covenants that it, and tothe best ofits knowledge, its
Subcontractors if any (collectively, "Consulting Parties"), presently have
no direct or indiret interest and will not acquire any interes, direct or
indirect, in any project or contract that would conflict in any manner or
degree withthe performance of its Services under this Agreement,

(©) Upon the request ofthe City, Consultant must disclose o the City its past
<lient ist and the names of any clients with whom it has an ongoing
relationship. Consultant is not permitted to perform any Services forthe
City on applications or other documents submitted to the City by any of
Consultant's pastor present clients. If Consultant becomes aware of a
conic, it must immediately stop work on the assignment causing the
‘conflict and notify the City

Revised January 14,2004 (74) 2
6

(@) Without limiting the foregoing, ifthe Consulting Parties assist the City in

determining the advisability or feasibility of a projector in recommending,

= researching, preparing, drafting or issuing a request for proposals or bid

specifications for a project, the Consulting Parties must not participate,
directly or indirectly, asa prime, subcontractor or joint ventuer in that
project or in the preparation ofa proposal or bid for that project during the
term of this Agreement or afterwards. The Consulting Parties may,
however, assist the City in reviewing the proposals or bids forthe project
iffnone of the Consulting Parties have a relationship with the persons or
entities that submitted the proposals or bids for that project.

(©) Consultant further covenants that, in the performance of this Agreement,
1 person having any conflicting interest will be assigned to perform any
‘Services or have access to any confidential information, as defined in
Section 2.10 of this Agreement. Ifthe City, by the Commissioner in his
reasonable judgment, determines that any of Consultant's Services for
others conflict withthe Services Consultant is to render forthe City under
this Agreement, Consultant must terminate such other services
‘immediately upon request of the City.

‘Noo-Liability of Public Officials

Consultant and any assignee or Subcontractor of Consultant must not charge any
offical, employee or agent of the City personally with any liability or expenses of
defense or hold any official, employee or agent ofthe City personally liable to
them under any term or provision ofthis Agreement or because ofthe City's
execution, attempted execution or any breach ofthis Agreement.

ARTICLE 8. EVENTS OF DEFAULT, REMEDIES, TERMINATION, SUSPENSION

a1

AND RIGHT TO OFFSET
Events of Default Defined
The following constitute events of default:

(a) Any material misrepresentation, whether negligent or willful and whether
inthe inducement or in the performance, made by Consultant to the City.

(©) Consultant's material failure to perform any of its obligations under tis
‘Agreement including the following:

Revised Jamuary 1, 2004 (TA) pay
td etd gi eee

©

@

©

(Failure due toa reason or circumstances within Consultant's
reasonable control to perform the Services with sufficient
Personnel and equipment or with sufficient material to ensure the
performance of the Services;

(i) Failure to perform the Services in a manner reasonably satisfactory
to the Commissioner or the Chief Procurement Officer or inability
to perform the Services satisfactorily as a result of insolvency,
filing for bankruptey or assignment forthe benefit of creditors;

(ii) Failure to promptly re-perform within a reasonable time Services
that were rejected as erroneous of unsatisfactory;

Gv) Discontinuance of the Services for reasons within Consultant's
reasonable control; and

(v) Failure to comply with any other material term of this Agreement,
including the provisions conceming insurance and
‘nondiscrimination.

‘Any change in ownership or control of Consultant without the prior

‘written approval of the Chief Procurement Officer, which approval the

Chief Procurement Officer will not unreasonably withhold.

Consultant's default under any other agreement it may presently have oF
‘may enter into with the City during the life of this Agreement. Consultant
‘acknowledges and agrees that in the event of a default under this
‘Agreement the City may also declare a default under any such other
agreements,

Failure to comply with Section 6.1 in the performance of the Agreement.

(Consultant's repeated or continued violations of City ordinances unrelated
to performance under the Agreement that in the opinion of the Chief
Procurement Officer indicate a willful or reckless disregard for City laws
and regulations.

82 Remedies

The occurence of any event of default permits the City, atthe City’s sole option,
to declare Consultant in default. The Chief Procurement Officer may in his sole
discretion give Consultant an opportunity to cure the default within a certain

Revised Jamary 14,2004 (74) 25
ee tp gen St

period of time, which period of time must not exceed 30 days, unless extended by
the Chief Procurement Officer. Whether to declare Consultant in default is within
the-sole discretion ofthe Chief Procurement Officer and neither that decision nor
the factual basis for itis subject to review or challenge under the Disputes
provision ofthis Agreement.

The Chief Procurement Officer will give Consultant written notice ofthe default,

ther in the form of a cure notice ("Cure Notice"), or, if no opportunity to cure
will be granted, a default notice ("Default Notice”). Ifthe Chief Procurement
Officer gives a Default Notice, he will also indicate any present intent he may
have to terminate this Agreement, and the decision to terminate (but not the
decision not to terminate is final and effective upon giving the notice. ‘The Chief
Procurement Officer may give a Default Notice if Consultant fails to effect a cure
within the cure period given in a Cure Notice. When a Default Notice with intent
to terminate is given as provided in this Section 8.2 and Article 10, Consultant
‘must discontinue any Services, unless otherwise directed in the notice, and deliver
all materials accumulated in the performance ofthis Agreement, whether
completed or in the process, tothe Cty. After giving a Default Notice, the City
‘may invoke any or all ofthe following remedies, individually or collectively:

(@) The right to take over and complete the Services, or any part of them, at
Consultants expense and as agent for Consultant, either directly or
through others, and bill Consultant forthe cost of the Services, and
Consultant must pay the difference between the total amount ofthis bill
and the amount the City would have paid Consultant under the terms and
conditions of this Agreement for the Services that were assumed by the
City as agent for Consultant under this Section 8.2;

(©) The right to terminate this Agreement as to any or all ofthe Services yet to
‘be performed effective ata time specified by the City;

(©) The right of specific performance, an injunction or any other appropriate
‘equitable remedy;

(@) The right to money damages;

(©) The right to withhold all or any part of Consultant's compensation under
this Agreement;

(©) The right to deem Consultant non-responsible in future contracts to be
awarded by the City.

Revised Jamary I, 2004 4) 6
end en Oe gy Set

Ifthe Chief Procurement Officer considers it to be in the City’s best interests, he
‘may elect not to declare default orto terminate this Agreement. The parties
acknowledge that this provision is solely forthe benefit of the City and that ifthe

permits Consultant to continue to provide the Services despite one or more
‘events of default, Consultant isin no way relieved of any of its responsibilities,
<uties or obligations under this Agreement, nor does the City waive or relinquish
any of its rights,

‘The remedies under the terms of this Agreement are not intended to be exclusive
‘of any other remedies provided, but each and every such remedy is cumulative and
iin addition to any other remedies, existing now oF later, at law, in equity or by
starute. No delay or omission to exercise any right or power accruing upon any
event of default impairs any such right or power, nor is it a waiver of any event of
default nor acquiescence init, and every such right and power may be exercised
from time to time and as often as the City considers expedient.

83 Early Termination

{In addition to termination under Sections 8.1 and 8.2 of this Agreement, the City
‘ay terminate this Agreement, or all or any portion of the Services to be
performed under i, at any time by a notice in writing from the City to Consultant,
‘The City will give notice to Consultant in accordance with the provisions of
Article 10. The effective date of termination will be the date the notice is received
by Consultant or the date stated in the notice, whichever is ater. Ifthe City elects
‘to terminate this Agreement in full, all Services to be provided under it must cease
and all materials that may have been accumulated in performing this Agreement,
‘whether completed or in the process, must be delivered tothe City effective 10
days after the date the notice is considered received as provided under Article 10
of this Agreement (if no dete is given) or upon the effective date stated inthe
notice,

After the notice is received, Consultant must restric its activities, and those ofits
Subcontractors, to winding down any reports, analyses, or other activities
previously begun. No costs incurred after the effective date of the termination are
allowed. Payment for any Services actually and satisfactorily performed before
the effective date of the termination ison the same basis as set forth in Article 4,
but if any compensation is described or provided for on the basis of period
{longer than 10 days, then the compensation must be prorated accordingly. No
amount of compensation, however, is permitted for anticipated profits on
lunperformed Services. The City and Consultant must attempt to agree on the
amount of compensation to be paid to Consultant, but if not agreed on, the dispute
‘must be settled in accordance with Article 5 of this Agreement, The payment 20

Revised January 14,2004 74) ba
keh Dn gg ten

84

‘made to Consultant is in full settlement forall Services satisfactorily performed
under this Agreement

Consultant must include in its contracts with Subcontractors an early termination
provision in form and substance equivalent to this early termination provision to
prevent claims against the City arising from termination of subcontracts after the
carly termination. Consultant will not be entitled to make any early termination
claims against the City resulting from any Subcontractors claims against
Consultant or the City tothe extent inconsistent with this provision,

Ifthe City’s election to terminate this Agreement for default under Sections 8.1
‘and 8.2 is determined in a court of competent jurisdiction to have been wrongful,
then in that case the termination isto be considered to be an early termination
under this Section 8.3,

‘Suspension

‘The City may at anytime request that Consultant suspend its Services or any part
cof them, by giving 15 days prior written notice to Consultant or upon informal
‘oral, o even no notice, inthe event of emergency. No costs incurred after the
effective date of such suspension are allowed. Consultant must promptly resume
its performance of the Services under the same terms and conditions as slated in
this Agreement upon written notice by the Chief Procurement Officer and such
‘equitable extension of time as may be mutually agreed upon by the Chief
Procurement Officer and Consultant when necessary for continuation ot
completion of Services. Any additional costs or expenses actually incurred by
Consultant asa result of recommencing the Services must be treated in
‘secordance with the compensation provisions under Exhibit 2 of this Agreement.

No suspension of this Agreement is permitted in the aggregate to exceed a period
‘of 45 days within any one year of this Agreement. Ifthe total number of days of
‘suspension exceeds 45 days, Consultant by written notice tothe City may trea the
suspension as an early termination ofthis Agreement under Section 8.3.
Right to Offset

(@) _Inconnection with performance under this Agreement:

The City may offset any excess cost incurred:

Revised Jamuary 14,2004 (74) 28
ent Di nny Sn

©

(ifthe City terminates this Agreement for default ot any other
reason resulting from Consultant's performance or non-performance;

Gi) ifthe City exercises any ofits remedies under Section 8.2 of this
Agreement; oF

(ii) ifthe City has any credits due or has made any overpayments under

this Agreement.

‘The City may offset these excess costs by use of any payment due for
‘Services completed before the Cty terminated this Agreement or before
the City exercised any remedies. Ifthe amount offset is insufficient to
cover those excess costs, Consultant is lable for and must promptly remit
to the City the balance upon writen demand for it. This right to offset is
in addition to and nota limitation of any other remedies availabe to the
City.

{In connection with Section 2-92-380 of the Municipal Code of Chicago:

(@ _Inaccordance with Section 2-92-380 of the Municipal Code of
Chicago and in addition to any other rights and remedies (including
any of set-off) available to the City under this Agreement or
‘permitted at law or in equity, the City is entitled to set off « portion
of the price or compensation due under this Agreement in an
‘amount equal to the amount of the fines and penalties for each
‘outstanding parking violation complaint and/or the amount of any
debt owed by Consultant to the City. For purposes of this Section
8.5 “outstanding parking violation complaint” means a parking
ticket, notice of parking violation or parking violation complaint
‘on which no payment has been made or appearance filed in the
Circuit Court of Cook County within the time specified on the
‘complaint. "Debt" means a specified sum of money owed to the
City for which the period granted for payment has expired.

Gi) Notwithstanding the provisions of the above subsection, no such
<debi(s) or outstanding parking violation complaint(s) will be offset
from the price or compensation due under this Agreement if one or
‘more of the following conditions are met:

‘A. Consultant has entered into an agreement with the
Department of Revenue, or other appropriate City
‘department, forthe payment of all outstanding pazkit

Revised Jaruary 14, 2004 (TA) 2»
en Oe apy

©

violation complaints and/or debts owed tothe City and
Consultant is in compliance with the agreement; or

B. Consultant is contesting liability for or the amount of the
debt ina pending administrative or judicial proceeding; or

€. Consultant as filed a petition in bankruptey and the debts
‘owed the City are dischargeable in bankruptcy.

In connection with any liquidated or unliquidated claims against
Consultant:

Without breaching this Agreement, the City may set off portion of the
price or compensation due under this Agreement in an amount equal to the
amount of any liquidated or unliquidated claims that the City has against
Consultant unrelated to this Agreement. When the City’s claims against
Consultant are finaly adjudicated in a court of competent jurisdiction or
otherwise resolved, the City will reimburse Consultant to the extent of the
‘amount the City has offset against this Agreement inconsistently with such
determination of resolution,

ARTICLE 9. GENERAL CONDITIONS

9.1 Entire Agreement

@

()

General

‘This Agreement, andthe exhibits, which are attached to it and
incorporated init, constitute the entire agreement between the parties and.
‘no other terms, conditions, warranties, inducements, considerations,
promises or interpretations are implied or impressed upon this Agreement
that are not addressed in this Agreement.

No Collateral Agreements

statements or promises contained in this Agreement and any exhibits
attached to it and incorporated by reference in it, no representation,
statement o promise, oral or in writing, of any kind whatsoever, by the
City, its officials, agents or employees, has induced Consultant fo enter
{nto this Agreement or bas been relied upon by Consultant, including eny

Revised Jamaary 14,2004 74) 30
Prt cel en Ege eet

92

93

with reference to: (i) the meaning, correctness, suitability or completeness
‘of any provisions or requirements ofthis Agreement; (i) the nature ofthe

= _ Services to be performed; (ii) the nature, quantity, quality or volume of |
‘any materials, equipment, labor and other facilities needed for the
performance of this Agreement; (iv) the general conditions which may in
‘any way affect this Agreement or its performance; (v) the compensation,
provisions ofthis Agreement; or (vi) any other matters, whether similar to
or different from those referred to in (j) through (vi) immediately above,
affecting or having any connection with this Agreement, its negotiation,
any discussions ofits performance or those employed or connected or
concerned with it

© NoOmissions

‘Consultant acknowledges that Consultant was given ample opportunity
‘nd time and was requested by the City to review thoroughly all
<documents forming this Agreement before signing this Agreement in order
that it might request inclusion in this Agreement of any statement,
representation, promise or provision that it desired or on that it wished to
place reliance. Consultant did so review those documents, and either
‘every such statement, representation, promise or provision has been
included in this Agreement or else, if omitted, Consultant relinquishes the
‘benefit of any such omitted statement, representation, promise or provision
and is willing to perform this Agreement in its entirety without claiming
reliance on it or making any other claim on account of its omission.

Counterparts

‘This Agreement is comprised of several identical counterparts, each o be fully
signed by the parties and each to be considered an original having identical legal
effect.

Amendments

Except as provided in Section 3.3 of this Agreement, no changes, amendments,
‘modifications or discharge of this Agreement, or any part of it are valid unless in
‘writing and signed by the authorized agent of Consultant and by the Mayor,
Comptrolier, and Chief Procurement Officer of the City or their respective
successors and assigns. The City incurs no liability for Additional Services
Without a written amendment to this Agreement under this Section 9.3,

‘Revived January 14,2004 (TA) 31
94

9s

‘Whenever in this Agreement Consultant is required to obtain prior writen
approval, the effect of any approval that may be granted pursuant to Consultant's
‘equtst is prospective only from the later of the date approval was requested or the
date on which the action for which the approval was sought isto begin. In no
‘event is approval permitted to apply retroactively to date before the approval
‘was requested.

Governing Law and Jurisdiction

‘This Agreement is governed as to performance and interpretation in accordance
‘with the laws ofthe State of Ulinois

Consultant irrevocably submits itself tothe original jurisdiction of those courts
located within the County of Cook, State of tlinois, with regard to any
controversy arising out of, relating to or in any way concerning the execution or
performance of this Agreement. Service of process on Consultant may be made,
atthe option ofthe City, either by registered or certified mal addressed tothe
applicable office as provided for in this Agreement, by registered or certified mail
addressed to the office actually maintained by Consultant, or by personal delivery
‘on any office, director, or managing or general agent of Consultant, If any action
is brought by Consultant against the City conceming this Agreement, the action
‘must be brought only in those courts located within the County of Cook, State of
linois.

Severability

If any provision ofthis Agreement is held or deemed to be or isin fact invalid,
illegal, inoperative or unenforceable as applied in any particular case in any
jurisdiction or in all cases because it conflicts with any other provision or
provisions ofthis Agreement or of any constitution, statute, ordinance, le of law
‘or publi policy, or for any other reason, those circumstances do not have the
effect of rendering the provision in question invalid, illegal, inoperative or
lunenforceable in any other case or circumstances, of of rendering any other
provision or provisions inthis Agreement invalid, illegal, inoperative or
‘unenforceable to any extent whatsoever. The invalidity, illegality, inoperativeness
or unenforceability of any one or more phrases, sentences, clauses or sections in
this Agreement does not affect the remaining portions of this Agreement or any
part of it.

Revised Samaary 14, 2004 (T4) 32
tt ened ei ge

96

97

99

Assigns
All of the terms and conditions of this Agreement are binding upon and inure to
the benefit of the parties and their respective legal representatives, successors and
assigns.

Cooperation

Consultant musta all times cooperate fully with the City and actin the City's best
interests. Ifthis Agreement is terminated for any reason, o if it is to expire on its
‘own terms, Consultant must make every effort to assure an orderly transition to
nother provider of the Services, if any, orderly demobilization of its own
‘operations in connection with the Services, uninterrupted provision of Services
<during any transition period and must otherwise comply with the reasonable
requests and requirements of the Department in connection with the termination
or expi

Waiver

[Nothing in this Agreement authorizes the waiver of a requirement or condition
‘contrary to law or ordinance or that would result in or promote the violation of
any federal, state or local law or ordinance.

Whenever under this Agreement the City by a proper authority waives
Consultant's performance in any respect or waives a requirement or condition to
cither the City’s or Consultant's performance, the waiver so granted, whether
express or implied, only applies to the particular instance and is nota waiver
forever or for subsequent instances ofthe performance, requirement or condition.
‘No such waiver is a modification of this Agreement regardless of the number of
times the City may have waived the performance, requirement or condition. Such
waivers must be provided to Consultant in writing.

Independent Contractor

‘This Agreement isnot intended to and will not constitute, create, give rise to, or
otherwise recognize a joint venture, partnership, corporation or other formal
‘business association or organization of any kind between Consultant and the City
The rights and the obligations of the parties are only those set forth in this
‘Agreement, Consultant must perform under this Agreement as an independent
contractor and not asa representative, employee, agent, or partner of the City.

Revised January 4, 2004 (TA) 3
‘This Agreement is between the City and an independent contractor an, if
Consultant isan individual, nothing provided for under this Agreement constitutes
implies an employeremplayee relationship such that

(a) The City will not be lable under of by reason of this Agreement for the
payment of any compensation award or damages in connection with
‘Consultant performing the Services required under this Agreement.

(©) Consultant is not entitled to membership in the City of Chicago Pension
Fund, Group Medical Insurance Program, Group Dental Program, Group
Vision Care, Group Life Insurance Program, Deferred Income Program,
‘vacation, sick leave, extended sick leave, or any other benefits ordinarily
provided to individuals employed and paid through the regular payrolls of
the City of Chicago.

(©) The City of Chicago is not required to deduct or withhold any taxes, FICA,
‘or other deductions from any compensation provided to Consultant.

ARTICLE 10. NOTICES

Notices provided for in this Agreement, unless provided for otherwise in this Agreement, must
be given in writing and may be delivered personally or by placing in the United States mail, first
class and certified, retura receipt requested, with postage prepaid and addressed as follows:

Ito the City: City of Chicago Department of Planning and Development
Room 1000, City Hall
I2IN. LaSalle Street
Chicago, Minois 60602
Attention: Commissioner

and

Department of Procurement Services
Room 403, City Hall

121 North LaSalle Street

Chicago, Minois 60602

Attention: Chief Procurement Officer

With Copies to: Department of Law
Room 600, City Hall
121 North LaSalle Street
Chicago, Illinois 60602

Revised January 14, 2004 (TA) 4
Attention: Corporation Counsel
Ifto Consukant: To the address set forth in the preamble ofthis Agreement

‘Changes in these addresses must be in writing and delivered in accordance with the provisions of
this Article 10, Notices delivered by mail are considered received three days after mailing in
accordance with this Aticle 10. Notices delivered personally are considered effective upon
receipt. Refusal to accept delivery has the same effect as receipt.

ARTICLE 11. AUTHORITY

Execution of this Agreement by Consultant is authorized by a resolution ofits Board of
Directors, ifa corporation, or similar governing document, and the signatures) of each person
signing on behalf of Consultant have been made with complete and full authority to commit
Consultant to all terms and conditions of this Agreement, including each and every
representation, certification and warranty contained in it, including the representations,
certifications and warranties collectively incorporated by reference init

ARTICLE 12. SPECIAL CONDITIONS REGARDING MBE/WBE COMMITMENT.

In the performance of this Agreement, including the procurement and lease of materials or
‘equipment, Consultant must abide by the minority and women's business enterprise commitment
requirements of the Municipal Code of Chicago, ch. 2-92, Sections 2-92-420 et seq. (1990),
except tothe extent waived by the Chief Procurement Officer and the Special Conditions
Regarding MBW/WBE Commitment set forth inthis Article 12. Consultant's completed
Schedules C-1 and D-1 in Exhibit 3, evidencing its compliance with this requirement, ae a part
‘of this Agreement upon acceptance by the Chief Procurement Officer. Consultant must utilize
‘minority and women's business enterprises at the greater of the amounts listed in those Schedules
(C-1 and D-I or the percentages listed in them as applied to all payments received from the City.

(Signature Page to follow)

Revised January 1, 2004 7) 35
Signature Page
SIGNED at Chicago, Mlinoi

Ding Hosts S{

CHRISTOPHER B. BURKE ENGINEERING, LTD.

By:_Christopher 8,

President

Iss,
(President ortAuthorized Officer)

State of _I11inois
County of Cook
‘This instrument was acknowledged before me on_August 2, 2004 (date) by

Christopher 8. Burke(name’s of person/s) as _ President.

(type of authority, eg, officer, trustee, ete.) of Christopher 6. Burke Engineering, Ltd.
(name of party on behalf of whom instrument was executed)

SES

‘OFFICIAL SEAL

MEUISSA  Zneroan
Ears

Revised January 14,2004 (TA)

an One gy Seen

EXHIBIT 1 -Scope of Services

‘Attachment A.
Key Personnel,

‘Attachment B
Schedule for Performance

‘Attachment C
Project Insurance

‘Revised January 14,2004 TA)
Attachment A.

Key Personnel

Revised Jamuary 14,2004 (4)
iy of Cricago
Professional Land Suveying
‘Specifcaton No.: 21326

Name ‘Glassiicaton,
CChrstpher B. Burke Principal

John R. Murphy, PLS. Land Surveying Manager
Kenneth J. Rasmussen Sr. Project Surveyor
Brian D. Gilet, PLS. Sr. Project Surveyor
Kar. Schenker Project Surveyor
‘Thomas Wik Project Surveyor

Robert Keller Project Surveyor

Ivan Najaero Staff Surveyor

Davie Wolters Staff Surveyor

CCharels Rainey Staff Surveyor

‘Alexie J. Karavakis Engineering Technician

“These are the curent classification forthe above employees.
(CBBEL reserves the right to reciassifyincivduals when they have
received an interfice promotion or passed a professional exam
te i ge Sn

Attachment B
= Schedule of Performance

Revised Jamuary 14, 2004 (TA)
‘Schedule of Perform:

‘This Agreement takes effect as of its execution by the City(“Effective Date”), and will continue for
146 Months, or util the agreements terminated in accordance with its terms, whichever occurs first.

‘Task Orders

‘The Commissioner will provide the Consultant with a basic Task Order form after contract award.
All Services must be authorized by a written Task Order. Consultant acknowledges and agrees that
the City is under no obligation to issue any Task Orders for Services.

Upon the written approval of the Commissioner, the Department will issue a Task Order Request
specifically referencing this Agreement, identifying the project, and setting forth the Services to be
‘performed pursuant to the proposed Task Order and a desired completion date. Consultant must
respond by proposing atime schedule, budget, deliverables and a list of key personnel, all of which
‘must conform to the terms of the Task Order Request and the terms and conditions of this
‘Agreement. Consultant must not respond to any Task Order Request not approved in writing by the
‘Commissioner. Costs associated with the preparation of Task Orders are not compensable under this
‘Agreement and the City isnot liable for any additional cost.

Following Consultant's submission ofthe Task Order, the Commissioner and the Chief Procurement
Officer will review the Task Order and may elect to approve it, eject i, or use it asa basis for
further negotiations with the Consultant regarding the scope ofthe project and the project completion
date. If the City and the Consultant negotiate the scope of the projet and the project completion
dat, the Consultant must submit a revised Task Order (based upon such negotiations) tothe City
for approval.

{All Task Orders are subject othe approval ofthe Chief Procurement Officer and no Task Order will
become binding upon the City until itis approved, in writing, by the Chief Procurement Officer.
Absent approval of a Task Order by the Chief Procurement Officer, the City will not be obligated
to pay or have any liability, under any theory of recovery (whether under the Agreement, at law or
in equity), to the Consultant for any Services provided by the Consultant pursuant to a Task Order,
or otherwise

Ifthe Services to be performed under a Task Order are to be funded from a fund other than the fund
identified by the fund number set forth inthis Agreement, such change in funding must be approved
by the Chief Procurement Officer and the Comptroller prior tothe issuance of any Task Order funded
through such fund, and the applicable fund number must be included in the Task Order form
provided to the Consultant.

Notice to Proceed

‘The Consultant will commence its Services immediately upon receipt of an executed Notice to
Proceed issued by the Commissioner or his authorized designee.
tnt etm en gm ct

- Attachment C
Project Insurance

Revised January 14,2004 (TA)
‘Land Surveying Services

CConsutant must provide and maintain at Consultant's own expense, during the term ofthis Agreement and
‘any te period folowing expiration If Consultant is required to return and perform any ofthe Services oF
‘Addlional Services-Inder this Agreement, the insurance coverages and requirements specified below,
Insuring all operations related to this Agreement.

A
DD)

2)

BE)

4

5

INSURANCE TO BE PROVIDED.
Workers Compensation and Emplovers Liability
Workers Compensation Insurance, a8 prescribed by applicable law, covering all employees who

are to provide any services under this Agreement and Employers Liability coverage with mits of
not less than $500,000 each accident or ness.

‘Commercial General Liability (Primary and Umbreta)

Commercial General Lisbitty Insurance or equivalent with limits of not less than $2,090,009 per
‘occurrence for bod inury, persona injury and propery damage labilty. Coverages must include
{he folowing: Allpremises and operations, productsicompleted operations, separation ofinsureds,
defense and contractual ability (with no imtaton endorsement). The City of Chicago isto be
‘named as an additional insured ona primary, non-contributory bass for any habilty arising creciy
‘or indirectly from the Services,

‘Subcontractors performing work forthe Consultant must maintain limits ofnotless than $1,000,000
withthe same terms herein

‘Automobie Liability (Primary and Umbrella)

‘When any motor vehicles (owned, non-owned and hired) are used in connection with Services to
be performed, Consultant must provide Automobile iabiy Insurance wit lms of not ess tan
$2,000,000 per occurrence for body inury and property damage. The City of Chicago isto be
‘named as an adeitonal insured ona primary, non-contnbutory Dasis,

‘Subcontractors performing work forthe Consutant must maintain its ofnotiess than $3,000,000
withthe same terms herein,

Professional Liability

When any architects, engineers, or other professional consultants perform Services in connection
with his Agreement, Professional Liability Insurance covering acs, erors or omissions must be
‘maintained wit iis of not less than $2,000,000 Coverage must include contractual ably.
‘When policies are renewed or replaced, the policy retroactive date must coincide with, o precede,
‘start of Services on the Agreement. A ciaims-made polcy which is not renewed or replaced must
hhave an extended reporting period of 2 years.

Subcontractors performing work forthe Consultant must maintain mits of notes than $3,000,000
withthe same terms herein,

Valuable Papers

When any plans, designs crawings, surveys, maps, media, data, specications and documents are
produced or used under this Agreement, Valuable Papers Insurance must be maintained in an
‘Smount to insure against any loss whatsoever, and must have iis sufficient © pay forthe re-
‘reaton and reconstruction of such records
©) Proper
Consuitantis responsible forall loss or damage o Cty property at ill replacement cost

Consultant's responsible forall loss or damage to personal propery (including meterias,
‘equipment, tools and supplies) owned, rented or used by Consultant

8. ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:

‘Consultant mustfumish the City of Chicago, Departmentot Procurement Services, City Hal, Room 403, 121
North LaSalle Steet60602, onginal Certificates of insurance, or such similar evidence, to bein force onthe
date ofthis Agreement, and Renewal Certificates of Insurance, or such similar evidence, ifthe coverages,
have an expiration or renewal date occurring during the term ofthis Agreement. Consultant must subsmit
evidence of insurance on the City of Chicago Insurance Certficate Form (copy attached as Exhibit) of
equivalent prior to Agreement award. The receipt of any cortiicate does not constitute agreement by the
City that the insurance requirements in this Agreement have been fully met or hal the insurance poxces
indicated on te certificate are in compliance with all Agreement requrements. The flute ofthe Cy to
obiain certificates or other insurance evidence trom Consultant is not a waiver by the City of any
requirements for Consutant to obtain and maintain the specified coverages. Consultant must advise af
Insurers of the Agreement provisions regarding insurance. Non-conforming insurance does not reteve
Consultant of the obligation to provide insurance as specie in this Agreement Nonfuilment of te

‘surance conditions may constitute a Violation ofthe Agreement. and the City retains the right fo suspend
this Agreement unt proper evidence of insurance is provided othe Agreement may be terminated’

‘The insurance must provide for 60 days prior writen notice tobe given to the City inthe avent coverage is
substantially changed, canceled or non-renewed.

‘Any deductibes or stf-nsured retentions on referencedinsurance coverages must be bore by Consutant.

Consutant agrees thatinaurecs wave theirights of subrogation againstthe Cty of Chicago, ts employees,
‘lected officials, agents or representatves.

‘The coverages and limits furnished by Consultant in no way limit the Consutants abides and
‘esponsibilies specified win his Agreement or by la.

‘Any insurance or seltnsurance programs maintained by the City of Chicago do not contribute with
Insurance provided by Consultant under this Agreement.

‘The required insurance to be carried is not limited by any limitations expressed in the indemnification
‘anguage inthis Agreement or any lintation placed on the indemnity in this Agreement given asa maior
flaw

Consutant must require al Subcontractors to provide the insurance required in this Agreement, or
Consutant may provige the coverages for Subcontractors Al Subcontractors are subject to the serve
insurance requrements as Consultant uniess otherwise specied in this Agreement

'f Consutant or Subcontractor desi addtional coverages, the party desiring the adeltional coverages is
responsible for the acquisition and cost.

‘The Cty of Chicago Risk Management Department maintains the right io modiy, delete, alter or change
these requirements.
en By THE FLAGLER AOENGY; 1708 049 4674; Aug 24-06 442185 Page 1/2
8474200520

AGORD. CERTIFICATE OF OF LIABILITY INSURANCE ‘onyoe/zo08

[Seven CORSETS 4100 DAS INFORMATION
—, Bley avs conn es ees Pr fem carmen
Whar Uincoin Avene s
Barton, #60418 - aunns AFFORDING COVERAGE nace
[name Cartetopher 6 Barks naiasarTeg CEE wane St. Paul Fire & Marine Ing. Co
9575 ws Wigptne Rowdy #900 Saas
Rotenoner fe sooth =
(eae Mone aay a RE RETR Ta eS STATE

emma FISSERTE] TO/IS72005 | 1071872006 | wx coewecs — |s 10,005,
‘ coon (_Jouneuoe ioe |
[sem _s_ 10,004 o

== WATSOTAAI) TO/AS/A00¥ | TO7IS7E004 [RT SSUEET PEI
Fo aad —

‘ReORD Hi cae)

‘CORPORATION 1088
08/24/2006 26 17 FAK 18478290520 CB BURKE Ewa GI

003/009

Sent By: THE FLAGLER ADENCYS 4 700 049 4074; hug 24-04 + page 2/2

a eg ae

Certificate issued to City of Chicago (98/04/2008
‘orth _

‘a7oe7z00¢

project! Professions) Land Surveying Services Contract #6498

‘Adeietonal Insured: The City of Cntcago

‘The Ceneral Liability coverage includes Blanket Additonal Insured Endorsament 1/00 99 02. but only
TRE Gemagatedtty weicesn conteacts Coverage ia prisary, non-contributory par form CL/00 99 Ot

‘me Comercial Auto coverage includes additional tnaured for City of Cnteago. je

Transfer of Rights of Recovery and Proceeds Against Others to Us form CL/BF 21 30 48 included
31 PAE $47 $17 039

9$/95-2008

ava INS acexce Booz

acorp. CERTIFICATE OF LIABILITY INSURANCE 22:, | “=~,

08 /05/0:
‘DiS GERTWICATETS SUED ASA warreR OF GRATION
ONLY AND cones nO WGHTS UPON.
elmer is CernricaTe GOES NOT AMEND EXTEN OR
ACTER TH COVERAGE AFFORDED OY (He POSES BELOW,

INSURERS AFFORDING COVERAGE

REGED, te. coo =

Tninewa ALexiagtoe Tagurance Company

a we oseaoso
preerrrs

04/07/08) 04/07/05) rar ciate $2,001
Aggregate $4,000,000,

ried
“tecept for ion-Paynane, 10 Daye

Re: Professional Land surveying Services contract #6439

CERRCATEROLIER TW arma nana RTT

NEELAION

Clty of cutongo
Purchasing Department

E2i'w, negaiie serect mm 403
Gibetge Th e008

crea

‘se a FT An asco REDS BORER ROOTS ATE]
DaTETIONor reasaneneuneRYaL hesrONTOM. 60” anrswmrree

- mele

ORT THT

CREDA CAPRI TE
EXHIBIT 2
= ‘Schedule of Compensation

‘RestsedSarvary 14, 2004 (TA)
EXHIBIT 2
COMPENSATION AND METHOD OF PAYMENT

(COSTS PLUS FIXED FER.

‘Compensation Component

‘Consultant will be compensated for its Services based on actual costs plus a fixed fee. Allowabilty
And allocability of costs wil be determined in accordance with the terms and conditions of this
‘Agreement. Compensation will consist of 1) the cost of labor, 2} the overhead and burden,
including bt not imited to payroll elated taxes, insurance and fringe benefits 3] certain direct costs;
4] Subcontractors; and 5] a fixed fee, as described below:

1. Labor Costs: Labor costs will consist of the actual costs ofl sllowable and allocable salaries
land wages (exclusive of overtime premiums and payroll related taxes, insurance and fringe
‘benefits pid 10 Consultant's and Subcontractors" employees forthe time spent inthe performance
‘of Services under this Agreement (collectively, "Labor Costs"). Labor Costs for Consultant and
Subcontractors by position classification are set forth in Attachment A to this Exhibit. Labor
Costs associated with Consultant and Subcontractor principal for administrative tasks are not
‘reimbursable. Principals may bill fr Labor Cost for son-administative tasks directly applicable
{o the Services only by request and prio approval of the City.

2. Overhead and Burden: Overhead and burden will consist of actual indirect costs of the home
sand branch offices of Consultant and Sebcontractors which re allowable and allocable tothe
Services (collectively, "Oveshead"). The Overhead rates st forth in subsection (6) below wil be
applied to Labor Costs for purposes of invoicing,

& Audits

‘The City reserves the righ to audit Consulint’s and/or Subcontractors’ Overhead rate(s)
andior any ofthe components ofthe compensation.

b. Overhead rates

Subject to the limitation set forth in 2() below, the Overhead rate applicable to Consultant
‘employees who perform Services in elation to this Agreements: /2 8, %

Overhead rates applicable to Subcontractors’ employees ae listed in Atachment B and are
‘ot permited to exceed the Consultant's. Consultant must grant the City Overhead rates
seoerally offered to Consultants prefered clients subject to limitations described here.

Limitation on Overhead

‘The compensation due to Consultant and Subcontractors will nt exceed 150% of Labor Costs
FIDO has determined a current rate, oran audit ceptable by the City has been determined,
the Consultants and Subcontractors’ overhead rate will not exceed the lessor ofthe rates
specified
Consultant's and Subcontractors’ Overhead rate may not exceed the lowest of (a) the rate
specified above; () the rate determined a later date by IDOT; or (c) the rate determined at ¢
later date by an audit acceptable tothe City. The City has the right to recapture the difference
‘betwee the amount it has wetually pid to Consultant andthe amount it should have paid under
the preceding sentence,

Direct Costs: Direct cost wil consist of those costs described below which

i]_are incurred in the performance of Services under this Agreement;

i) are allowable and ellocable tothe project,

i) are nt inchided in Overhead; and

'v] areroutinely and uniformly charged to specific projects under Consultants accountng system
(collectively, "Direct Costs").

‘Any expenditure in excess of $5,000 which qualities asa Direct Coat wil require prior approval
‘ofthe Commissioner. Consultant may not breakdown an expenditure which would otherwive be
{greater than $5,000 in order to avoid this approval requirement. Direct Costs will include the
following:

Drawings, Printing
‘reproduction related only tothe production ofthe

‘Long Distance Telephone/Telegraph and Shipping Costs. Long distance telephone calls,
postage, messenger and overnight delivery costs.

14 Reproduction Costs. The costs of all printing, binding and
lestone submittals tothe City.

Travel and Related Expenses. Out of iwn travel is not anticipated under this Agreement,
However, should out of towa travel become necessary inthe performance of the Servises,
Consultant must obtain prior writen approval fom the City for expenses related total into
OF out ofthe City. All such expenses must conform with the Ciy's travel reimbursement
guidelines, a copy of which is anached here as Attachment C. Expenses incurred for travel
‘in Chicago will be subject to Group I Limitations as sot forth in the Citys guidelines.

{Inaccordance with Attachment C, the City will pay 36.0 cent per mile to Consultant and/or
‘Subcontractors for travel associated with project site visitas required by the Commissioner

44. Equipment, Tools and Vehicle. Cost of any equipment, tools, furniture, computer
‘equipment or vehicles hired/Lased or purchased for Consultant's performance the Service,
Drovided that any such item purchased will become the property ofthe City and further
‘Provided that Consultant must obtain prior written approval of the City forthe purchase, hire
or lease of such equipment, tools, furniture, computer equipment oe vehicles tothe exent any
‘one such item will cost in excess of $500

Permits and Fees. Costs to Consultant for permits and fees, if any, required to carry out the
Services except for normal business and professional fees (which Consultant may include
its Overhead cost pool).

Prem

overtime, Totheextenthat Consultant paysits employees a premivm in excess
ofits hourly rates for overtime spent onthe project, the cost ofthe premium will be rested as,
1 Direct Cost which will not be iachided in Labor Cost and which will aot be subject to
pplication of any Overhead ate. Any such overtime must bein accordance with Consultants
policies which are subject to prior approval by the Cty

& Miscellaneous. Any other costs or expenses incurred by Consultant as reasonable and
necessary forthe proper performance ofthe Services and allowable and directly allocable to
the project. Any expenditure in excess of $1,000 will require prior approval of the
‘Commissioner.

4. Subcontractors. The City will reimburse Consultant forthe costs of Subcontractors as those
costs are incurred under orn connection wth Subcontracts awarded by Consultant in accordance
‘with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, subject to the City's prior writen approval.

‘Thecosts of Subcontractors which are reimbursable to Consultant will include the Subcontractors
Labor Costs, Overhead, fixed fee and Direct Costs and, except as otherwise provided in
‘Atiachment B to this Exhibit, are subject to those term and limitations established for Labor
Costs, Overhead and Direct Cost in this Exhibit 2A. In no event is Consultant ented to any
mark-up of Subcontractor cost.

‘5. Flued Fee. The City will pay Consultan fixed fee (Fixed Fee”) amount as an allowance for
‘Profit tobe earned in the performance of Services under this Agreement by Consultant. Consultant
tay receive progress payments on Fixed Fee only in such amount proportionate to the Services
satisfactorily performed as of the date of the invoie. However, Consultant will not be entitled to
receive a portion ofthe Fixed Fee which exceeds the percent of progress achieved by Consultant
1s ofthe date ofthe invoice in relation tothe Services. In any event, progress payments on Fixed
Fee will not exceed the amount set frth above in the aggregate. For purposes of payment of this
Fixed Fee satisfactory completion of the Services means the provision by Consultant of acceptable
Deliverables and the timely achievement of milestones, and wll aot be construed solely in terms
cof expenditure of Consultants time.

‘Negotiation of Fined Fee; For purposes of determining the fixed fee foreach tak order, the City
‘will negotiate the Consultant's profit at fixed fee dollar amount. ‘The maximum fixed fee
applicable to each task order will not exceed 10% of an amount equl tothe sum of labor costs
plus overhead and burden,

‘6. Maximum Compensation. The maximum compensation under this Agreement may not exceed
'$2.100.000.00,

Fund Number, 004-720-08-2547.0140-0140-2547,
B. Method of Payment

1. Invoices. Once cach month, Consultant must submitto the City an invoice for Services performed
during the preceding month. Consultant must support each invoice with reasonable detil
Including Subcontractor costs. in accordance with the terms ofthe Agreement, Consultant must
‘maintain complete documentation ofall costs incured for review and audit by the City or its
designated audit represetatve(s). Consultant mus also include in is invoice a portion of the
Fixed Fee as stipulated above, Consultant most submit each invoice inthe format directed by the
City and provide with ta progress report ina format acceptable othe City. The progress report
‘must identify any variances ffom budget or schedule and explain the reasons forthe variances.

2. Payment. Payment willbe processed within 60 days after the City's approval ofan acceptable
invoice.

4. Invoice Disputes. [fcerain tems contained in Consultants invoices are disputed by the City, the
‘amount not in question must be paid in full. The amount in question must be resolved in
accordance with the Disputes provision ofthis Agreement.
EXHIBIT 2

SCHEDULE OF PRICES.
PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYING

(CHRISTOPHER B. BURKE ENGINEERING LTD.

CLASSIFICATION

= Se

‘Per our contract with the City, Christopher B. Burke Engineering Lid will charge
the above based om the classification listed above plus overhead and fixed fee not
by a loaded rate. We have previously provided you withthe maximum rates per
yean/per classification.
ATTACHMENT A
MAXIMUM HOURLY LABOR RATES

CONSULTANT
CITY OF CHICAGO
SPECIFICATION No. 21326
Contract No: 6499. =
Requisition No. 12363,

CHRISTOPHER B. BURKE ENGINEERING, LD.

MAXIMUM RATES BY CLASSIFICATION 200820062007,
‘CLASSIFICATION RATE | RATE] RATE
PRINCIPAL 375.00 | $75.00 | $75.00
ENGINEER Vi $76.00 | $81.00 | $85.00
ENGINEER V 58.00 | $8200 | $88.00
ENGINEER IV $48.50 | $50.00 | $53.00
ENGINEER I $2825 | s4t.00 | s4200
ENGINEER I $29.00 | $3100 | $3300
SR. ENVROMENAL RESOURCE SPECIALIST 48.00 | $49.00 | $52.00
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCE SPECIALIST Il saio0 | $4400 | $47.00
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCE SPECIALIST Il $2800 | $3000 | $3200
ENVIROMENTAL RESOURCE TECHNICIAN? $2700 | $2000 | $31.00
LAND SURVEYING MANAGER $5725 | $61.00 | $64.00
SR. PROJECT SURVEYOR $48.75 | $50.00 | $53.00
PROJECT SURVEYOR" $3875 | sa1so | $4400
STAFF SURVEYOR * $2425 | $26.00 | $28.00
SENIOR ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN $45.00 | $4800 | $51.00
ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN II" $3825 | $3000 | $41.00
ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN I* $3000 | $3250 | $3450
ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN" $20.00 | $2200 | $2400
WORD PROCESSOR" $3200 | $3500 | $37.00
SECRETARY" sza00 | sst00 | $3300

* ELIGIBLE FOR OVERTIME RATE @ 1.5 X RATE
“+ Maximum rates are for inal base period (2005-2007)

‘Christopher B. Burke Engineering Lid. reserves the the right o renegotiate
‘maximum rates for any contract extension(s) to the base period.

CHRISTOPHER B. BURKE ENGINEERING, LTD.
ATTACHMENT A (continued)

SUBCONTRACTORS

‘Maximum Hourly Rate
COPD - Professional Land Surveying Services
‘Specticaion Number 21324

Contract No. 6489

Rquistion Number: 12363

ATTACHMENT A
Subconsultant: _ Shah Engineering, Inc.

Position Maximum Hourly Rates
(Classification
2005 2006 2007

[Principal A e5.00|s _70.00/$ 75.00
Project Manager $ s6oo|s _60.00{$ 65.00
[Structural Engineer $ s600[s _60.00|$ 65.00
[civil Engineer $ ss.oo|s 60.00['$ 65.00
[Mechanical Engineer $ si00]$ _ss.00|$ 58.00
Electrical Engineer $ si00]$ _55.00|$ 58.00
Plumbing $ a7sols s0.00/$ 53.50
[Cost Estimator $ soo] 4750|$ 49.60
[Geotechnical Engineer $ sioo]s _s5.00|$ 59.00
Field inspectors, $ 4oco]$ 42so|$ 45.00
Registered Land Surveyor $ saco]$ 41.00 $ 44.00
Party Chiet A asco|s 37.50|$ 40.00
Instrument Man $ asso|s _si.sols 33.50
[CADD Operators $ as.oo|$ _38.00|$ 42.00

ATTACHMENT A

ENVIRONMENTAL DESIGN INTERNATIONAL INC.
Position Classification ‘Maximum Hourly Rate
2008. 2006 | 2007,

Principal 384.00 388.20, 3o2.61
‘Administrative Support $24.15 $25.36 $26.63
‘CADD Technician 31.50 $33.08 $3473
‘CADD Designer/Manager ‘$44.10 $4631 ‘$48.62
Junior Civil Engineer '$42.00 $44.10 $4631
Senior Civil Engineer $52.50, $55.13 57.88
Project Manager ‘$49.86 $5235 $54.97
Environmental Scientist $27.83 $29.22 $30.68
‘Senior Environmental Scientist $44.10 $4631 $48.62
‘Junior Geologist $33.08 $34.73 $36.47
‘Senior Geologist $44.10 $4631 $48.62
Junior Industral Hygienist $35.70 $37.49 $39.36
‘Senior Industrial Hygienist $40.95 $43.00 $45.15
Tnstrument Person. $24.15 $2536 $26.63
Party Chief $33.08 $3473 $36.47
[Surveyor-In-Training 338.85 $40.79 $42.83

(Registered Land Surveyor $49.85 $5234 $54.96

* Actual Direct Salary (includes no overhead, salary burden or profit) based on Hourly Rates

Effective January 1, 2005,

ATTACHMENT B

SUBCONTRACTOR
OVERHEAD AND BURDEN RATES
[AND ESTABLISHED FIXED FEES
Illinois Department of Transportation

dune 23, 2003

Subject! PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING
Consultant Unit

Prequalification Fe RECEIVED

Burke, Christopher B. Eng., Lt
9575 West Higgins Road JUN 2 6 2003

Suite 600

Rosemont, IL 60018-4820 coviaper & Bane Endineeing L

Dear Ms. Melvin:

We have completed our review ofthe corporate and financial information portion
(of your “Statement of Experience and Financial Condition” (SEFC) which you
‘Submitted for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2002. Your firm's total annual
transportation fee capactty will be $12,400,000.

‘Your firm's payroll burden and fringe expense rate and general and administrative
expense rate totaling 128.4% are approved on a provisional basis and willbe
Used in evaluating your Statements) of Interest in our selection process. The
‘actual rate used in agreement negotiations may be determined by our Bureau of
‘Accounting and Auditing in a pre-award audit.

‘Your fim is require to report to this ofice any additions or deletions of your
licensed professional staff or any other key personnel that would affect your firm's
prequalifeation in a particular category. This report must be submitted within 15
Calendar days of the change.

‘Your firm is prequalified until December 31, 2003. You will be given an additional
‘six months from this date to submit the entire "Statement of Experience and
Financial Condtion" (SEFC) to remain prequalified.

Very truly yours,

Omg Ging

‘Cheryl Cathey P-E.
Chief of Preliminary Engineering
Illinois Department of Transportation
230 South Dien Party / Spnghi, ines / 62764

‘August 26, 2008,
‘Subject: PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING RI

‘Consultant Unit ECEIVED

re AUG 2 8 2099

Mc. Manu Shah
Shah Engineering, ne.
One tom Ptaza
Suite 3200
CChicag, IL 60611

Dear Mr. Shah:
We have completed our review of your "Statement of Experience and Financial
Candie’ SEFC) whic you submited forth fecal year ecg Dacomber 2,
2002. Based on your reported transportation related staff and

favo boon prequatiod nthe taneportaton specialization categris inated on
the attached summary. Your firm's total annual transportation fee capacity wil be
‘$8,800,000.

‘Your fir’ payroll burden and fringe expense rate and general and administrative
‘expense rate totaling 155% are approved on a provisional basis and will be used
in evaluating your Statement(s) of interest in our selection process. The actual
‘ate used in agreement negotiations may be determined by our Bureau of
‘Accounting and Ausiting in a pre-award audit.

‘Your frm is requiced to report to this office any additions or deletions of your
licensed professional staff or any other key personnel that would affect your fim's
prequalifcation in a particular category. This report must be submitted within 15
‘calendar days of the change.

‘Your firm is prequalified until December 31, 2003. You will be given an additional
‘si months from this date to submit the Corporate and Financial Information
portion of the “Statement of Experience and Financial Condition” (SEFC) to
‘remain prequalified.

Very truly yours,

Chad Gy

‘Cheryl Cathey PE.
Chief of Preliminary Engineering

10 encenng
Shah Engineering, Inc.

‘ONE OM PLAZA,
A SUITE 3200,

CHICAGO. 60611
4 TEL (912) ax6-9000

- FAK (392) 8369090

Consulting Engineers

August 4, 2004

To Whom It May Concer:

RE: Overhead Factor for
Shah Engineering, Inc.

We hereby propose and commit to use overhead factor of 155% forall work in iew of our
audited overhead factor which is higher than 155%.
‘Thank you.

Shah Engineering, Inc.

Ma fo

Manu Shah, PE, SE.
President
Illinois Department of Transportation

£2300 South Dian Parkway / Springfield linos / 62764

uly 9, 2008

‘Subject: PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING
Consultant Unit
Prequalification File

Ms. Deborah Sawyer
Environmental Design international
2200'S. Michigan Ave.

‘Suite 700

Chicago, IL 60604-

Dear Ms. Sawyer:
We have completed our review of your “Statement of Experience and Financial
Condition” (SEFC) which you submitted forthe fiscal year ending December 31,
£2003. Based on your reported transportation related staff and experience, you
hhave been prequalified inthe transportation specialization categories indicated on
the attached summary. Your firm's total anoual ransportaton fee capacity wll be
$5,100,000.

‘Your firm's payroll burden and fringe expense rate and general and administrative
‘expense rate totaling 160.97% are approved on a provisional basis and will be
sed in evaluating your Statements) of Interest in our selection process. The
‘actual rate used in agreement negotiations may be determined by our Bureau of
‘Accounting and Audting in a pre-award audit.

‘Your fim is required to report to ths office any additions or deletions of your
licensed professional staff or any other Key personnel that would affect your fens
Prequalification in a particular category. This report must be submitted within 15,
calendar days of the change.

‘Your firm is prequalified until December 31, 2004. You willbe given an adsitional
‘sic months from this date to submit the Corporate and Financial Information
Portion of the “Statement of Experience and Financial Condition" (SEFC) to
Femain prequalified

Very truly yours,

Chef Gy

Cheryl Cathey P.E.
Chief of Preliminary Engineering
ATTACHMENT C

erty oF CHICAGO
‘TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT GUIDELINES

Alltansponation costs must be accounted for with separate categorie for ach typeof ansporaton sine cl bus,
(ab fares ov oer lca transportation, and private automobiles) The ue of private automobile in lieu of public
‘Tansprtation willbe imbursed a 360 cents per mie, but nn event wl the reimbursement exceed the cost of coach
tir fare The maxim dally rate designated fr hotel rate for meals ae also in roup categories. Any ips or gratuity
{tobe included

(Original itemized receipts forall ost must be atached tothe approved wavel request and submited with he monthly

Reimbursement rates are categorizedby relative rave cots associated with certain ces. Group and I iss are not
all inchsive. For cites not listed, please consult with the Office of Budget & Management for appropriate
‘eimbursement rates

(Per diem based upon [ STAND ALONE | GROUP! ‘crovrncimies | crovr

Federal Government Tew youciy, | atm GA ‘Bator MD Kes Cin, MO
rates willbe | acon Boman MA Gv On aia KY
Newvoucry | Chan Soca Nada
oon feaeim.ca | Comat Om Seton, MO
Peispee a | Ooh Sreetid
Sinfcaca ca] Demer CO
‘uningon be | Same:
were | Rete

smoot | Mena

#300 43.00 s3.00 2500
SSomp tae | Sy te Soom ee ‘Soro re
con fee | Sma fe Scam oe Stone
Seocamiee | Socom Seema Sonomie
sz000 sivs00 15000 ‘510000

S110 s1000
$1300 siz00
S400 e000

Toa inca tsnd ip

td en gy Set
EXHIBIT 3

= MBE/WBE Special Conditions

Revised January 1, 2004 TA)
SCHEDULE C-1
Letter of Intent from MBE/WBE to Perform
as Subcontractor, Supplier and/or Consultant

Professional Land Surveying Services
Name of ProjectContract:

Specification Number: 21524

From: Shah Engineering. Inc. MBE: Yes X.
(Name of MBEWHE Firm) WBE: Yes
‘To: Christopher B. Burke Engineering. Lid. _and the City of Chicagor

‘The undersigned intends to perform work in connection with the above project as &

Sole Proprietor X__. Corporation
— Partnership vont Venture

‘The MBE/WBE status ofthe undersigned is confirmed by the attached letter of Certification from the

City of Chicago effective date of April23,200___t April 1.2005 fora period

‘of one year.

‘The undersignt i propared to provide the fllowing described services or supply the fllowing described goods in
connection withthe above named pojeclcntract

‘Provide Professional Land Surveving Services.

‘The above described performances offered forthe following price and described terms of payment:

SA fo 0 £254,400 (DUR.

[If more space is needed to fully describe the MBE/WBE firm's propose scope of work andlor payment schedule,
attach additional sheets

‘The undersigned will enter into a forma written agreement for the above work with you as a Prime

ConsultanContractor, conditioned upon your execution ofa contract with the City of Chicago, and
will do so within (3) three working days of receipt ofa signed contract from the City of Chicago.

ee Page ot
iy ot cago
Richard Daley, Mayor
Deprmet of
Prcreen evns
Fre G
Crt Oe
iy Hat, ou 03

121 Noh aa Se
ge thos cod
Big aeaae ry

apie tne ns

NEI pues

RECEIVED

APR 3.0 2004

Manu Shah, President
‘Shah Engineering, inc.
‘One IBM Piaza, Suite #3200

“Chicago, ttino's 60611

Re: 3" ANNIVERSARY CERTIFICATION
Certification Effective: ‘Ape 23, 2008
Gertfication Expres: ‘Apel 1, 2007
ANNUAL Affidavit Certificate Expires: April 1, 2005,

Dear Mr. Sa:

‘Congratulations on your continued egy for certtaton as an MBEby the Cty of Chicago
Rewaldaton of Shah Engineering, Inc.'s cerficaton is requed by ADH 4, 2005,

‘4s aconaiion of continued certification during this five-year period, you must continue to fle 9

‘Ati Please note that you must
{Include a copy of your most current Corporate Federal Tax Retums. Fahuce to fe this
‘Aicavt wl result i the termination of your ceriicaton

‘You must siso not the Office of Business Development of any changes in ownership or
contol of your frm or any other matirs or facts affecting your frm ego for ceriicaton

‘Tne City may commence actions to remove your fem’ aigbity# yu fo not us of ny
changes in ownership, management or contol, or otherwise fll to cooperate with te Cy
{any inquiry or investigation. Removal of eligbilly procedures may also be commenced if your
‘rm is found to be involved in bidding or contractual rregulerties.

‘Your firm's namo wil be listed in the City's Directory of Disadvantaged Business Enterprises,
‘Mincrty Business Enterprises and Women Business Enterprises inthe specially aree(s) of

{Information Technology; Architectural and Engineering
‘Services; Surveying: Construction Management

‘Your fm’s participation on City contracts wal be credited only toward MBE goals in your

area(s) of specialty. While your participation on Cty contracts is nt ited to your specially,

eit loward MBE goals wil be given only for work done inthe specialty category.

‘Thank you for your continued interest in the Citys Minorty, Women and Disadvantaged
Business Enterprise Programs.

Very tty yours,

Mell) Meet

Deputy Procurement Officer

Mums
(08 Host: Menge Tra Authorty)

SCHEDULE C-1
Letter of intent from MBEMWBE to Perform
‘as Subcontractor, Supplier and/or Consultant
: Professional Land
Name of ProjeciContract: Surveying Services
Specification Number: 21324

From: _Environmental Design Intemational inc. (ED) -«MBE:Yes__No_X_
No.

(Nae of WBEWGE Fe) WAE: Yes x, =

To.__Chrstopher 8. Burke Engineering, LTD. and the City of Chicago
‘Name Para conser BaserPropcse

‘The undersigned intends to perform workin connection wih the above projects 28a

Sole Proprietor X___ corporation
Partnership = soit Venture

“The MBENWBE status of the undersigned is confirmed by the attached letter of Cetfcation fom the Cty of
Chicago effective date of October 8. 2003 to September 1, 2007 for a period of five years.

‘The undersigned is prepared to provide the folowing described eervices or supply the folowing descrbved
‘goods in connection with the above named projectlcontract

Professional Land Surveying Serves

Te above deserted prormance i oftere be folowing eg an ascrbed ms of payment
Depends Upon Reauirements — 1c $44, £00 estimated.

I more space is needed to fully describe the MBE/WBE frm's proposed scope of work andor payment
‘schedule, attach additonal sheets.

“The undersigned wil enter ito a formal writen agreement fr the above work with you as a Prime
Contractor, conditioned upon your execution of @ contact with te Cilyof Chicago, end wil do 80 within (3)
three working days of receipt of @ signed contract rom te Cy of Chicago.

‘Sige a Owteror

Deborah M. Sawyer! President and CEO

Nama Pa
ae ame
oon

Gatesor
tater

one epdoset

Denon M Sanya, rai
EnvgonmantaDaign wernaonas ne.
Ea Seun cigar un 708
‘reagan Se

‘Re SS AMMVERSARY CERTCATION

‘Seem eer! Sener 9, 2003
‘itemion Exec ‘SSpenoe tor
‘ems fie Cree Exes: Sopemoe 1, 2004

Dear. Saw

Congnatsone an ur aces eign caveat 2 a MBENWRE 2 8 iy
‘Saeage.Revencno Envtormerd Deighton scare wou
iene 004,

‘As aconaten of onaneacanfenen ang na fe ea pre you rata ie
No-Cnange Aitanet wen 60 cae ft Smo xprston Pose pos tat yu wt
\Seoue © apy ot your mou urertCoparee Peden Far Rout: Fans os
‘Ait wo Oe trae a yar oan

‘You mt ao nty Ofen of Bana Dewsopnet of ay ranges n caro
eed yar heel ayant orton sepa ets cagooy ornare

‘Ta Cay may commance scare remove yu tems agent yout rly ty
rages. ourra agar or cana eras fal cocpere wt CHY

‘Syeaurytresgnon. Revove eens frocatesrayano secure ft
Saniatouna wba weve ouang a connec Popo

‘ou fers ne wb ee nt Cys Dn of Dasoarage Buses Eres,
‘ocr uanoes trae wn Wort Bemees Erproce #8 Specaly oe) a

neranmanta!Managerecr:Coneutong Egon Sarva,

‘Asbestos Removal Surveys
“va ter partcgaton en Ci careaca wie chad oy nat MBEAN yea
{rest} ope. Wve you perpen oy eran mrt moa ya soa,
rot sw be Qe or wa aon eos ee).

Treo you Yr your conauad rarest he Ciys rer, Worn ana Descentged
‘isnede erie Prognes

very yo

(ui, 9 Lapa

&
SCHEDULE D-1
Affidavit of MBEWBE Goal Implementation Plan
Professional Land
Project Name ; Surveying Services
State of __L1inots
County (Cty of _Cook.
| HEREBY DECLARE AND AFFIRM that | am duly authorized representative of

Christopher B. Burke Engineering, Ltd.

‘and that | have personally reviewed the material and facts set forth herein describing our proposed plan to achieve
the MBEMWBE goals ofthis contract.

‘All MBEAWBE fiems included inthis plan have been certified as such by the City of Chicago (Letters of Certification
‘Atached).

|. MBE or WBE Prime Consultant/Contractor. If prime consultant isa certified MBE or WBE firm, atach copy of
Gity of Chicago Letter of Certification. (Certification ofthe prime consultant as a MBE satisfies the MBE goal
only. Cenification ofthe prime consultant as a WBE satisfies the WBE goal ony.)

IL. —-MBEs and WBES as Joint Venturers. If prime consultant i joint venture and one of more joint venture
partners are certified MBEs or WBE, attach copies of Letters of Certtication and a copy of Joint Venture
‘Agreement clearly describing the role of the MBE/WBE firm(s) and its ownership interest in the joint venture,

HL MBE/WBE Subconsuitants. Complete for each MBEMWBE subconsutant/subcontractor/supplier.
1, Name of MBEAN —_Shah Engineering, Inc.

‘One 18M Plaza, Suite 3200
‘Address:_330 K. Wabash Avenue, Chicago, IL 60611

Contact Person:__Manu Shah, President Phone: 312-836-9000

Dollar Amount of Participation $_354,900

Percent Amount of Participation: _16.9 __%

2. Name of MA#EWBE:__Environmental Design International, Inc.

‘Address: __200 S. Michigan Avenue, Suite 700, Chicago, IL 60604

Contact Person:__Deborah Sawyer, President Phone: 312-356-5400

Dollar Amount of Participation $94,500

Percent Amount of Participation: _4.5

Name of MBEAWBE:

SCHEDULE 0-1

Address:

‘Contact Potion:

Phone:

Dollar Amount of Paticipation $
Percent Amount of Participation:
Name of MBEWBE:

Address:

Contact Person:

Dollar Amount of Participation $,
Percent Amount of Participation

Name of MBEAWBE:

Address

Contact Person

Dollar Amount of Participation $
Percent Amount of Participation:
Name of MBEWBE:

Address:

Contact Person:

Phone:

Dollar Amount of Participation
Percent Amount of Participation:

Name of MBEWBE:

Adress:

Contact Person

Dollar Amount of Participation $.

Percent Amount of Participation:
SCHEDULE 0-1

8. Attach addtional sheets as needed,

IV, Summary of MBE Proposal:

MBE Firm Name Dollar Amount
of Participation
Shah Engineering. Inc. $354,900
8,
$,
s.
s.
‘Total MBE Participation: 5 354,900
V. Summary of WBE Proposal:
WBE Firm Name Dollar Amount Percent Amount
‘of Participation ‘of participation
Environmental Design $94,500 4.5%
International, Inc. s. %
5. %
8. %
3. %
Total WBE Participation: 8. a5 %

To the best of my knowledge, information and belief, the facts and representations contained inthis Schedile are
true, and no material facts have been omitted.

“The contractor designates the following person as their MBE/WBE Liaison Officer:
Name __John R. Murphy. PE, PLS Phone Number, 847-823-0500

| do solemnly declare and affirm under penal
correct, and that |am authorized, on behalf of

jury thatthe contents of the foregoing document are true and

State of _[1inots
County of cook

‘This instrument was acknowledged before me on August 2, 2006 (date)
by_Christopher B. Burke ___{name /s of persons)

as_President type of authority, eg, officer, trustee, etc.)
Of christopher 8, Burke Engineering, Ltd. name of party on behalf of whom instrument
was executed).

OFBIGIAL SEAL
MELISSA L ZIMMERMAN
I CSlaaana reson oe
SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MINORITY BUSINESS ENTERPRISE COMMITMENT
AND WOMEN BUSINESS ENTERPRISE COMMITMENT
(MBEWBE Professional Services)>0 r=

Policy nd Terms

‘A. Itisthe policy of the City of Chicago that Local Businesses certified as Minority Business Enterprises (MBE)
‘and Women Business Enterprises (WBE) in accordance with Section 2-92-420 et seq, of the Municipal Code
‘of Chicago and Regulations Governing Certification of Minority and Women-owned Businesses, and al other
Regulations promulgated under the aforementioned sections of the Municipal Code shall have the maximum
‘opportunity to participate fully in the performance of this agreement. Therefore, the contractor shall not
discriminate against any person or business on the basis of race, color, national origin or sex, and shall take
affirmative action to ensure that women and minority businesses shall have the maximum opportunity to
‘compete for and perform subcontracts for supplies or services.

‘The Chief Procurement Officer has established a goal of awarding not less than 25% of the annual
dollar value ofall non-construction contracts to certified MBES and 5% of the annual dollar value ofall
‘non-construction contracts to certified WBES.

B. Failure to carry out the commitments and polices set frth herein shall constitute a material breach ofthe
contract and may result in the termination ofthe contractor such remedy asthe City of Chicago deems
appropriate.

C. Accordingly, the contractor commits to expend at least the following percentages ofthe total contract price

(inclusive of any and all modifications and amendments, if awarded, for contract participation by MBEs and
WBES:

MBE Contract Goal: 16.9
WBE Contract Goal: 4.5

1. The commitment i met by the contractor's status as an MBE or WEE, o by a joint venture with one or more
certified MBES or WES that wil perform work onthe project, or by subcontracting a potion ofthe work to
‘one oF more MBES or Ws, or by the purchase of materials used in the performance ofthe contrat from
‘one of moce MBES of WES, ot bythe indirect participation of MBES ot WES in other aspect of the
ontactr’s business but no dollar of such indirect MBE or WBE participation shal be credited more than
once aginst a contractors MBE or WEE commitment wth respect to all contacts of such contacto, or by
any combination of the foregoing

Note: MBE/WEE participation goals ae separate and those businesses certified with the City of
Chicago as both an MBE and WEE shal not be credited more than once against a contractor's MBE or
WBE commitment in the performance ofthe contract.

£, _Asnoted above, the contractor may meet ll or part ofthis commitment by contracting with MBEs or WBES
for the provision of goods or services not directly related tothe performance of this contract. However, in
determining the manner of MBEAWBE participation, the contractor shall ist consider involvement of
_MBES/WBES as joint venture partners, subcontractors, and suppliers of goods and services diectly related to
the performance of this contrac. In appropriate cases, the Chief Procurement Officer will require the
‘contractor to demonstrate the specific efforts undertaken to involve MBEs and WBEs in diect participation in
the performance of this contract.

Page 1 of 10
‘SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MBEWBE COMMITMENT

‘The contractor also may with prior approval ofthe Chief Procurement Otficer or designee, meet all, or part,
ofthis commitment through credits received pursuant to Section 2-92-530 of the Municipal Code of Chica
for the voluntary use of MBEs or WBEEs in private sector projects. .

fit -

“Minority Business Enterprise” or “MBE” means a frm awarded certification as a minority owned and
controlled busines in accordance with Cty Ordinances and Regulations.

“Women Business Enterprise” or “WBE” means a firm awarded certification a a women owned and
controlled business in accordance with City Ordinances and Regulation.

“Directory” means the Directory of Certified “Disadvantaged Business Enterprises,” ‘Minority Business
Enterprises” and “Women Business Enterprises” maintained and published by the Contract Compliance
‘Administrator. The Director identifies firms that have been certified as MBEs and WES, and includes both
the date of their last certification and the area of specialty in which they have been certified. Contractors are
responsible for verifying the current certification status of all proposed MBE and WBE firms.

“area of Specialty” means the description of an MBE or WE firm's business which has been determined by
the Chief Procurement Officer to be most reflective of the MBE or WBE firm's aimed specialty or expertise
ach MBEWBE letter of certification contains a description ofthe firm's Area of Specialty. This information
{s also contained inthe Directory. Credit toward this contract's MBE and WE participation goals shall be
limited tothe participation of firms performing within their Area of Specialty

NOTICE: The Department of Procurement Services does not make any representation concerning the
ablity of any MBEWBE to perform work within their Area of Specialty. Iti the responsiblity
ofall contractors to determine the capablity and capacity of MBESWBES to satisfactorily
perform the work proposed.

“Joint Venture” means an association of two or more businesses to carryout a singe business enterprise for
profit, and for which purpose they combine their experts, property, capital, effors, skill and knowledge.
‘Contractors may develop joint venture agreements as an instrument to provide participation by MBEs and
|WBES in contract work

“Contract Compliance Administrator” means the officer appointed pursuant to Section 2-92-490 of the
‘Municipal Code of Chicago.

loint Ventures
‘Bidders may develop joint venture agreements as an instrument to provide participation by certified MBES

‘and WBEs in contract work. A joint venture seeking to be credited for MBE and/or WBE participation may
‘be formed among MBE and/or WBE firms or between an MBE andlor WBE firm and a non-MBEWBE firm,

{joint venture is eligible for MBE or WBE credit ifthe MBE/WBE joint venture partners) share in the
‘ownership, control and management responsibilities, sks and profs of the joint venture, and are
responsible fora clearly defined portion of work to be performed, in proportion with the MBE and/or WBE
ownership percentage.

Notice: The Cty requires that, whenever a joint venture is proposed asthe prime contractor, each joint
‘venture pater must separately sign the proposal tothe City, in the pages captioned, TO BE EXECUTED BY

Page 2 0f 10
v.

SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MBEWBE COMMITMENT

‘A CORPORATION; TO BE EXECUTED BY A PARTNERSHIP; andlor TO BE EXECUTED BY A SOLE
PROPRIETOR, as applicable.

Counting Mi art

‘The inclusion of any MBE or WBE in the contractor's MBEAWBE Utlization Plan shall not conclusively
establish the contractor's right to full MBE/WBE credit for that firm's participation in the contract. Once an
MBE or WBE is determined to be eligible in accordance with these rules, the total dollar value ofthe work
‘warded to the MBE or WBE may be counted toward the MBE or WBE goal except as indicated below:

‘The Chief Procurement Officer reserves the right to deny or limit MBE/WBE credit to the contractor where
any MBE or WE is found to be engaged in substantial subcontracting ot pass-through activites with others.
‘Reontractor may count toward its MBE and WE goals only expenditures to firms that perform a
Commercially useful function. A firm is considered to perform a commercially useful function when it is
‘responsible for the performance ofa clearly defined and distinct element of work and is carrying out ts
{esponsbiities by actually performing, managing, and supervising the work involved, To determine whether
‘fim is performing a commercially useful function, the Chief Procurement Officer shall evaluate the amount
‘Bk work subcontracted, industry practices, and other relevant factors. The amount of MBE/WBE participation
Credit shall be based upon an analysis by the Chief Procurement Officer ofthe specific duties that will be
‘performed by the MBE or WBE. Each MBEMBE shall be expected to actualy perform a substantial (.e,
Fore than eighty-five percent (85%) portion of the work contemplated for it by any subcontract or
fgreement through the use ofits own employees and equipment.

Requested information may include, without imitation: (1) specific information concerning brokers’
fees andior commissions; (2) intended sub-suppliers or other sources of goods and/or services; and
(3) specific financial or other isks to be assumed by the MBE/WBE.

MBs and WBEs who have been certiied as “brokers” shall no longer be considered eligible to participate for
“ny consideration of MBE or WBE credit on contracts awarded by the City in 1993 and thereafter, until
further notice.

‘joint venture may count toward its MBE or WE goal the dolar value ofthe actual work performed by the
[MBE and/or WBE joint venture partner with its own resources.

‘The Chief Procurement Officer reserves the right to disallow goal credit forall, or any portion, of work
performed by an MBE or WBE joint venturer based on evaluations of non-compliance with these Special
Conditions or any other City, State and/or Federal regulation.

8 Governing of ME

‘The following Regulation st forth the standards to be used in determining whether or not a reduction or
waiver of the MBEMWBE commitment goals ofa particular contact is appropriate. fa bidder or proposer
‘Jetermines that its unable to meet the MBE and/or WBE goal percentage on a City of Chicago contract, a
written request for the reduction or waver ofthe commitment must be included in the bid or proposal.

“The written request for reduction or waiver from the commitment must be in the form ofa signed petition
for grant of rele! from the MBEWBE percentages submitted on the bidder/proposer's letterhead, and must
demonstrate that all required efforts as st forth in this document were taken to secure eligible Minority and
‘Women Business Enterprises to meet the commitments. The Chief Procurement Officer or designee shall
determine whether the request forthe reduction or waiver will be granted.

Page 3 of 10
SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MBEWBE COMMITMENT

Bidders/proposers will be considered responsive to the terms and conditions of these Regulations if a
waiver request and proof of notification to an assist agency is submitted atthe time of bid/proposal
‘opening. Once the bids have been opened, the lowest responsive and responsible bidder so deemed by the
Chief Procurement Officer of authorized designee will have no more than fourteen (14) calendar days 10
submit to the Department of Procurement complete documentation that adequately addresses the
conditions for waiver described herein. Proposers responding to Request for Proposals (RFPs) who have
been identified asa short listed candidate and/or a prospective awardee will be given a designated time
allowance, but no more than fourteen (14) calendar days to submit to the Department of Procurement
Services complete documentation that adequately addresses the conditions for waiver described herein.
Respondents to Request for Information and or Qualifications (RFURFQs) deemed by the Chief
Procurement Officer or authorized designee to be the most responsive and responsible shall submit
documentation that adequately addresses the conditions for waiver described herein during
negotiations. Failure to submit documentation sufficient to suppor the waiver request will cause the
bid/proposal to be found non-responsive by the Chief Procurement Officer, and the bid/proposal will be
rejected, n such cases the remedies to be taken by the Chief Procurement Officer, in his discretion, may
include, but are not limited to, forfeiture of bid deposit; negotiating with the next lowest bidder/proposer; or
te-advertsing the bid/proposal ll bidders/proposers are encouraged to submit ll required documents atthe
time of bid opening to expedite the contract award.

Directindirect Participation

Each ofthe following elements must be present in order to determine whether or not such a reduction or
waiver is appropriate

1. The bidder/proposer has documented the unsuccessful solicitation for ether subcontractors or joint
‘venture partners of atleast 50% (ora least ive when there are more than eleven certified firms in
the commodity area) ofthe appropriate certified MBE/WBE firms to perform any direct or indirect
work identified or related tothe advertised bid/proposal. Direct participation involves subcontracting
’2 portion ofthe goods/services specifically required in the bid/proposa. Indirect participation is the
subcontracting of good/servces not specifically related to the performance of this contract.
Documentation must include but is not necessarily limited to:

a. A detailed statement of effort to identify and select portions of work identified inthe bid
solicitation for subcontracting to certified MBE/WBE firms;

b, _Aliting ofall MBEWBE firms contacted that includes:
(1) Names, address and telephone numbers of MBE/WBE firms solicited;
@) Date and time of contact
(G) Method of contact (writen, telephone, facsimile, et.)

Copies of letters or any other evidence of mailing that substantiates outreach to MBEWBE
vendo that includes:

(1) Project identification and location;

@) _Classifcatior/commadity of work items fr which quotations were sought;
(3) Date, item and location for acceptance of subcontractor bid proposals;

Page 4 of 10
‘SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MBE/WBE COMMITMENT

(4) Detailed statement which summarizes direct negotiations with appropriate MBEWBE
firms for specific portion ofthe work and indicates why negotiations were
unsuccessful;

(5) Affirmation that good faith efforts have been demonstrated by choosing

= subcontracting opportunites likely to achieve MBEWBE goals by not imposing any
limiting conditions which were not mandatory fo all subcontractors; or denying the
benefits ordinarily conferred on MBEWBE subcontractors for the type of work that
was solicited.
oR

2. Subcontractor participation will be deemed excessively costly when the MBEMWBE subcontractor
proposal exceeds the average price quoted by more than twenty percent (20%). In order to establish
that a subcontracts’ quote is excessively cosy, the bidder/proposer must provide the following
information

2. detailed statement of the work identified for MBEWBE parcipation for which the
bilerropose asserts the MBE/WBE quotes were excessively cost (in excest of 20%
higher.

(1) Allisting ofall potential subcontractors contacted for a quotation on that work item;
(2) Prices quoted forthe subcontract in question by all such potential subcontractors for
that work ter,

'. Other documentation which demonstrates tothe satisfaction ofthe Chief Procurement
Officer that the MBEAWBE proposals are excessively costly, even though not in excess of 20%
higher than the average price quoted. This determination willbe based on factors that
include, but are not limited tothe following:

(1) The City’s estimate forthe work under a specific subcontract;

(2) The bidder/proposer’s own estimate fr the work under the subcontract;

(3) An average of the bona fide prices quoted forthe subcontract;

(4) Demonstrated increase in other contract cost asa result of subcontracting tothe
MAWBE or other firm.

‘Assist Agency Participation
Every waiver and/or reduction request must include evidence that the bidder/proposer has provided timely

‘notice ofthe need for subcontractors to an appropriate association/asist agency representative ofthe
-MBE/WBE business community.

‘The notice requirement ofthis Section will be satisfied if a bidder/proposer contacts atleast one ofthe
associations on Attachment A when the prime contractor seeks 2 waiver or reduction in the utilization goals
‘tachment B provides te letter format that a prime contractor may use. Proof of tification prior to bid
‘submit e.g certified mail receipt or facsimile transmittal receipt) will be required for any bid/proposal
submitted to be deemed responsive on the date of bid opening, if deemed appropriate, the Chief
Procurement Officer or Contract Compliance Officer may contact the assist agency for verification of
notification.

Page Sof 10
‘SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MBE/WBE COMMITMENT
Impacticabilty

1. Ifthe Chief Procurement Officer determines that a lesser MBE andlor WBE percentage standard is
appropriate wit respect to a particular contract subject to competitive bidding prior tothe bid
solictationsfor such contact, bid specifications shall include a statement of such revised standard.

2, The requirements set forth in these Regulations shall not apply where the Chief Procurement Officer
determines prior tothe bid solicitations that MBE/WBE subcontractor participation i impracticable.

‘This may occur whenever the Chief Procurement Officer determines that for reasons of time, need, industry
practices or standards not previously known by the Procurement Department administrator, or such other
‘extreme circumstances as may be deemed appropriate, such a Waiver isin the best interests ofthe City, This
determination may be made in connection with a particular contract, whether before the contract islet for
bid, during the bid or award process, before or during negotiation ofthe contract, or during the performance
‘ofthe contract

For all notifications required to be made by bidders/proposers, in situations where the Chief Procurement
‘Officer as determined that time is of the essence, documented telephone contact may be substituted for
leter contact.

ine Bid Compl
The following Schedules and described documents constitute the bidder's MBEAWBE proposal, nd must be
submitted in accordance with the guidelines stated:

Schedule C-1: Lette of Intent rom Mi Supgler andlor Cons
1 Schedule C-1 executed by the MBEMWBE subcontractor or Joint Venture partner) must be submitted by
the bidder/proposer foreach MBE/WBE included on their Schedule D-1 and must acurately tal the work
to be perormed by the MBE/WBE and the agreed rates and prices to be pad,

If any fully completed and executed Schedule C-1 is not submitted with the bid/proposal, it must be received
by the Contract Administrator within ten (10) days ofthe bid/proposal opening. (All post bid/proposal
submissions must have orginal signatures on all documents). Failure to submit a completed Schedule C-1 in
accordance with this ection shall entitle the Cy to deem the bid/proposal non-responsive and therefore
reject the bid/proposal,

eter of Certification.

‘A copy of each proposed MBEMWBE firm's curent Letter of Certification from the Cty of Chicago must be
‘submitted with the bid/proposal

‘All Letters of Certification isued by the City of Chicago include a statement of the MBEMWBE firm's Area of
‘Specialty. The MBE/WBE firm's scope of work, as detaled by their Schedule C-1, must conform to their.
stated Area of Specialty.

Joint Venture Agreements,
If the bidder'Yproposer's MBE/WBE proposal includes the participation of an MBE/WBE as joint venture on

any ter (either asthe bidder/proposer or as a subcontractor) the bidder/proposer must provide a copy of the
joint venture agreement.

Page 6 of 10
vu.

‘SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MBE/WBE COMMITMENT

1 Affi 3 Goal Im lon Plan

Bidders must submit, together with the bid, a completed Schedule D-1 committing them to the utilization of
each listed MBEANBE firm,

xcept in cases where the bidder/proposer has submitted a request for a complete waiver of or variance from
the MBEWBE commitment in accordance with Section V. herein, the bidder/proposer must commit to the
expenditure ofa specific dollar amount of participation and a specific percentage ofthe total award amount
for each MBE/WBE firm included on their Schedule D-1. The total dolar commitment to proposed MBES
‘must atleast equal the MBE goal, and the total dollar commitment to proposed WBEs must at least equal
the WBE goal. Bidders are responsible for calculating the dollar equivalent of the MBE and WBE goals as
Percentages oftheir total base bids or inthe case of Term Agreements, as percentages ofthe total estimated
Usage,

‘Al commitments made by the bidder's Schedule D-1.must conform to those presented in the submitted
Schedule C-1. I Schedule C-1 is submitted after the bid opening (ee Section VI. A, above), the
bidder/proposer may submit a revised Schedule D-1 (executed and notarized) to conform with the Schedule
‘GA. Except in cases where substantial and documented justification i provided, bidders/proposers will not
be allowed to reduce the dollar commitment made to any MBE or WBE in order to achieve conformity
between the Schedules Cl and D1,

wir During The Ts Contract

The Contractor shall, not later than thity (30) days from the award ofa contract by the City, execute formal
contracts or purchase orders with the MBEs and WEES included in thelr approved MBE/WEE Utilization Plan.
‘These written agreements shall be made available tothe Chief Procurement Officer upon request.

In the case of one time procurements of supplies with either single or multiple deliveries to be performed in
less than one year from the date of contract award, an *MBEAWBE Utilization Report,” indicating final MBE
and WBE payments shal be submitted directly to the Department of Procurement Services so as to assure
‘receipt ether at the same time, or before the using Department receives the contractors final invoice. Final
payments may be held until the Utilization Repors have been received.

NOTICE: Do not submit invoices with “MBEWBE Utilization Reports.”

During the term of all other contracts, the contractor shal submit regular “MBE/WBE Utilization Repors,” a
‘copy of whichis atached. The frequency with which these repors are to be submited will be determined
by the Chief Procurement Officer, but in no case will reports be required less often than on a quarterly bass,
tn the Chief Officer 's fst “MB

nit fe the date rd, due

“MBE/WBE Utlization Reports” are to be submitted directly to: Department of Procurement Services,
Office of Vendor Relations, City Hal, Room 403, 121 N. LaSalle Street, Chicago, llinois 60602.

The Contract Compliance Administrator shall be entitled to examine, on five (5) business days notice, the
‘contractor's books and records including without limitation payroll records, tax returns and records, and
books of account, to determine whether the contractor isin compliance with its commitment to MBEWBE
participation andthe status of any MBE or WBE performing any portion of the contract. Such rights are in
addition to any other audit inspection rights contained inthe contract.

Page 7 10
SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MBEWBE COMMITMENT

‘VII MBE/WBE Substitutions

CChanges by the contractor ofthe commitments earlier certified inthe Schedule D-1 are prohibited. In some
cases, however, it may become necessary to substitute a new MBE or WEE in order to actually full the
MBEAWBE requirements.

The contractor must notiy the Chief Procurement Officer immediately in writing ofthe necessity to reduce
or terminate an MBEMWBE subcontract and to utilize a substitute firm for some phase of work. The
Contractor's notification should include the reason forthe substitution request, as wel as, the name, address
and principal official ofthe substitute MBEAWBE and the dollar value and scope of work of the subcontract.
‘tached should be all the requisite MBE/WBE affidavits and documents, as enumerated above in Section VI
above, “Procedure to Determine Bid Compliance.”

‘The City will not approve extra payment for escalated costs incurred by the contractor when a substitution of
subcontractors becomes necessary forthe contractor inorder to comply with MBE/WBE contract
requirements.

‘ter award of contract, no relief ofthe MBE/WEBE requirements wil be granted by the City except in
‘exceptional cumstances. Requess for complete or partial waiver of the MBE/WBE requirements of this
contract must be made in writing, stating all details of the request, the circumstances, and any additional
relevant information, The request must be accompanied by a record of al efforts taken by the contractor to
locate specific firms, solicit MBEMWBE bids, sek assistance from technical assistance agencies, et, as
‘outlined above in the section V. above, entitled “Regulations Governing Reductions To or Waiver of
MBE/WBE Goals”

1X Non-Compliance and Damages

The following constitutes a material breach of this contract and shall entitle the City to decare a default,
terminate the contract and exercise those remedies provided for in the contract, at law or in equity

(1) allure to satisfy the MBEWBE percentages required by the contract; and

(2) the contractor or subcontractors disqualified as an MBE of WBE, and such status was a
factor in contract award, and was misrepresented by the contractor.

Inthe event that the contractor is determined not to have been involved in any misrepresentation ofthe
status ofthe disqualified subcontractor or supplier, the contractor shall sek to discharge the disqualified
subcontractor or supplier, upon proper notification tothe Chief Procurement Officer and/or Contract
‘Compliance Administrator and make every effort to identify and engage a qualified MBE or WBE as is
replacement. Furthermore, continued eligibility to enter into future contracting arrangements with the City
may be jeopardized as a result of non-compliance. Payments due to the contractor may be withheld unt!
‘corrective action i taken,

Atbitration

{nthe event that a contractor has not complied with the contractual MBE/WBE percentages in its Schedule
, underutilization of MBESWBEs shall entitle the affected MBE/WBE to recover from the contractor
<damages suffered by such entity as a result of being underutilized; provided, however, that ths provision
shal not apply to the extent such underutlization occurs pursuant toa waiver or substitution approved by

Page 8 010
‘SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MBE/WBE COMMITMENT

the City. The Ordinance and contracts subject thereto provide that any disputes between the contractor and
such affected MBESWBES regarding damages shall be resolved by binding arbitration before an independent
arbitrator other than the City, with reasonable expenses, including atorney's fees, being recoverable by a
prevailing MBEWBE in accordance with these regulations. This provision is intended forthe beneft of any
-MBE/WBE affected-by underutilization and grants such entity specific third party beneficiary rights. Any
rights conferred by this regulation are non-waivable and take precedence over any agreement to the
contrary including but not limited to those contained ina subcontract, suborder, or communicated orally
between a contractor and an MBEWBE.

B, An MBE/WBE desiring to arbitrate shall contact the contractor in writing to initiate the arbitrative process.
Except as otherwise agreed to in writing by the affected parties subject tothe limitation contained inthe lst
sentence ofthe previous paragraph, Section X. A. above, within ten (10) days of the contractor receiving
notification ofthe intent to arbitrate from the MBEAWBE the above-described disputes shall be arbtrated in
accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Assocation (“AAA”), anot-
for-profit agency, with an office at 225 North Michigan Avenue, Suite 2527, Chicago, llinois 60601-7601
(Phone: (312) 616-6560; Fax: (312) 819-0404). All such arbitrations shal be initiated by the MBE/WBE
filing a demand for arbitration with the AAA; shall be conducted by the AAA; and held in Chicago, Ilinois.

CC. _Allfees ofthe arbitrator are the inital responsibilty ofthe MBE/WBE; provided, however, thatthe arbitrator
is authorized to award reasonable expenses, including atorney’s and arbitrator fees, as damages to a
prevailing MBENVBE.

1D. The MBEAWBE must send the City a copy ofthe “Demand for Arbitration” within ten (10) days ater itis filed
with the AAA. The MBE/WBE also must send the City a copy ofthe decision ofthe arbitrator within ten (10)
days of receiving such decision. Judgment upon the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in
any court of competent jurisdiction,

XL. Record Keeping
‘The Contractor shall maintain records of all relevant data with respect tothe utilization of MBESWBEs,
retaining these records fr a period of atleast three years after final acceptance of the work. Full acess to
these records shall be granted tothe City of Chicago, Federal or State authorities inthis project, the U.S,
Department of Justice, or any duly authorized representatives thereof.

XI, Information Sources,

‘Small business guaranteed loans; surety bond guarantees; 8 (a certification:

US. Small Business Administration S.BA. - Bond Guarantee Program
500 W. Madison Street, Suite 1250 Surety Bonds
Chicago, tlinois 60661 ‘500 West Madison, Suite 1250
General Information Chicago, Ilinois 60661
(312) 353-4528 ‘Attention: Carole Haris

(312) 353-4003

S.BA. - Procurement Assistance
500 West Madison, Suite 1250

Chicago, tlinois 60661

‘Attention: Robert P. Murphy, Area Regional Administrator
(312) 353-7381

Page 9 of 10
SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MBE/WBE COMMITMENT

Project information and general MBEWBE information:

City of Chicago ity of Chicago
Department of Procurement Department of Procurement
Office of Vendor Relations ‘Contract Administration Division
City Hall - Room 403 City Hall - Room 403

Chicago, tlinois 60602 Chicago, tlinois 60602

Attention: Glenn Bennett ‘Attention: Byron Whitaker

(312) 744.7655, (312) 744-4926

Directory of Certified Disadvantaged, Minority and Women Business Enterprises:

Gity of Chicago

Department of Procurement

Office of Business Development -Certification Unit
ity Hall - Room 403

Chicago, tlinois 60602

Attention: Lillie Cooper

(312) 744-1896

General Information, Department of Procurement Services: www.cityotchicago.org/purchasing

Information on MBE/WBE availability in the manufacturing, sales or supplies, and related fields (direct
assistance from 42 regional afliates located throughout the US.)

National Minority Suppliers ‘Chicago Minority Business
Development Council, Inc. Development Council
1040 Avenue of the Americas, 2% loor 11 South LaSalle - Suite 850
New York, New York 10018 Chicago, linois 60603
Attention: Harriet R. Michel ‘Attention: Tracye Smith
(212) 944.2430 (312) 263-0105

MWB Polen Sirs. 101603 18h)

Page 10 010
MBE/WBE UTILIZATION REPORT

LUtlizaton Report No. ____ Specification No.

Contract No.

Project Name:

STATE OF: —
COUNTY (CITY OF:_)

In connection withthe above-captioned contract:

| HEREBY DECLARE AND AFFIRM that | am the

and duly authorized representative of

a)
and thatthe following Minority and Women Busines Enterprises have been contracted with, and have furnished,
(rare furnishing and preparing materials for, and rendering services stated inthe contract agreement.

The following Schedule accurately reflects the value of each MBE/WBE sub-agreement and the amounts of
money paid to each to date

‘GoopsyseRvices AMOUNT OF AMOUNT PAID.

MBEWBE FIRM NAME PROVIDED CONTRACT TODATE

Total MBE: 5
Total WBE: §
MBEAWBE UTILIZATION REPORT

| do solemnly declare and affirm under the penalties of perjury thatthe contents ofthe foregoing document are
true and correct, and that | am authorized, on behalf of the contractor, to make ths affidavit.

Name of Contractor:
mater
Signature:
"ena anna
Name of Afiant:
Date:
me
State of
‘County (City of
‘This instrument was acknowledged before me on
(date)
{name's of person/s)
as Atype of authority, eg, officer,
trustee, etc)
of {name of party on behalf of whom
instrument was executed),
Signature of Notary Public

(Sea
tno ened ge
EXHIBIT 4
= Disclosure Affidavit
Anctuding Disclosure of Retained Parties)

Revised January 1, 2004 (TA)
Specification No.:C925990002
= Pre-Qualification Program
Date Approved by Law: September 5, 2003

AEEIDAVIT

‘The undersigned certifies thatthe Economie Disclosure Statement And Affidavit which the
Consultant completed and executed, as described above, remain true and accurate in all respects as if
the Affidavits are attached hereto.

Verification

Under penalty of perjury, I certify that I am the ___ President (Title), of
Christopher B. Burke Engineering, Ltd. and that Iam authorized by the Consultant to execute this
affidavit in its behalf, that have personal knowledge of the certifications made inthis affidavit and
that there have been no changes and thatthe same are true.

ature of Owner or Autitorized Officer

Christopher 8. Burke, PhD, PE
Name (Type or Print)

State of _I1inois
County of _Cook

‘Subscribed and sworn to me before this
2adday of _August 20.94

‘OFFICIAL SEAL
MELISSA L ZIMMERMAN

i

CITY OF CHICAGO
[ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT AND AFFIDAVIT

‘Tha Cty of Chicago (he “Cty requ declosure ofthe Information requested inthis
Econo Discosure Stator’ ard Afidevt EDS" belo ary iy agency, dopertmertor
(ly Gaunel acon regarding te ale athe siSject of tie CDS. Pease ily compete
‘ach sateen, wit inrmotn cuentas of te dat tis EDS sgned. a guestonis
not appcabl, answer wit"NA" An incomplete EDS wil be returned and any Cy
seton wl be Interrupted,

lease print or type al responses cart and legy. Add adonal pages needed, bing
‘arf fo deri the porton oft EDS o which wach adtonal page refers

Wo MUST SUBMIT AN EDS:

41. Apollcant: Any inidulor erty (ho Applicant) making an appcatonto fhe iy
{ox acon requiring Cly Councl or ter Chy agency approval mst fe a EDS.

2, _ Snes holding an interest in the Applicant Generay, whenever an cunersip
‘ntret inti Agpcant (or rari, shares soc ofthe Appear ors ned prep
Interest nth Appian) shed x owned by 3 lgal ent (or sxampe, a coperaton oF
Barbers, rater than an nlva each such egal ony mt lo Bean ES ono
Doha, and ary paren of hat lapel ently must do so unl naval unre are coed,
However, taney fg an EDS a crparaton woes share are registred ona ntonal
secutles exchange prsuartt the Secu Exchange Ato 194, ony hose shareckon
‘hat own 10% or moe of tha ng ets sock must le EDS8 on hl oun bata

[ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF POSSIBLE CREDIT AND OTHER CHECKS: By completing
{and fing tis EDS, the Unsigned ackrowedgos and agroes on bea oa and the,
nti onde namedin tis EDS, al be Gay may investigate the ravers of
some oral ofthe ens orindviuals named nts EOS,

[CERTIFYING THIS EDS: Exeaue he ceticatlon en the date of bial submission of is
EDS. You may be atked to recerify this EDS on the last page as ofthe dete of
submission of any related ordnance tothe City Councl, or a8 of te data ofthe
‘losing of your transection.

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE: iis the Cys policy to maka his document avatabe tothe
publle ont Internet site andlor upon request.

‘GENERAL INFORMATION
ate tis EDS is complotec: _ 8/4/03

‘A. Who is submiting this EDS? That svar ety wb
“inderigned” tvoagrousieeDs. Cari stapher B:"Surke Engineering, Ltd.
NOTE: The Undersigned tha individual or any abnitng this EDS, whether tho
Undersignedia an Applicant ors an ent hoaing on nterostin te Applcan. The
EDS require cataindlclonuren andcartiatons trom Applicant tat are not
‘required trom stile holding anitereat inthe Appcane When completing tis EDS,
Please observe whether the section you ae completing apples ony to Applicant.

{1 Check here if the Undersigned is fling this EDS 9s an Applicant.

(Check hor tthe Undorignad is fing as. an ently hang an interest nan
pepleat.

‘No, please Kent the Appcatin which this ety hasan rarest

6. tune atzenacrea naragnaa 3875 M. Wlgging Road
To: 4729-50 47-SE-E529 em merece con
©. Name teonatyonen Christopher 8. Burke
E:_Texidentiicaton number optenan:_36-3468939

le theMatoraprocromert? K Yes Ne

ta procurement, Speciation s CIZSA4YOON2._ end

Contract
1 nota proaement
1. hy Agency requesting EDS
2. Cty acon requested (9. oan gat sale of pop:

3 property involved et property lato:

es vise OWNERSHIP
‘A. _NATURE OF ENTITY
1. ndlcata wheter the Undersigned i annul regal ety.

() insaua {1 Unted Lsbity Company
1H Business corporaton ——[] sare verare
1 Sole proprietor Netter prot
(eta rotte rt cman do 04013)?
(Caner! paras Othe erty (pase specty)
1 -Uted parrerstip

2. Bt zor or nanzatn, pple:

3. Forlogalentesnotorganizedin the Stat ons: the ergartzation utorzed to
do business inte Sao nas 0 a oreign ory?
tives No XNA
Name The

Christopher B. Burke President/ Treasurer/ Director
Burke Directs

“Thomas—t_—Burks Director

&_Forcorporations that are notregstered ona rational scutes exchange pursuant to
the Secures Exchange Acto 184, atbeow he ram, business adress and prcerage
of ownersipnrest of each shred

Name Business Across Percentage Itrest

Christopher 8. Burke 9575 W. Higins, Suite 600 724
ROseROne, TOOTS.

Nancy E.Burke PU. Box 35; ca
Ketchua. 10 #3340 —

2. _IFTHE UNDERSIGNED IS A PARTNERSHIP OR JOINT VENTURE:
For general ried partnership rt vertu: le below ta rare, buses adsess
and percentage f ownership intrest ofeach parine. For Imted partnerships, cole
‘ether each parerie a general partner or rtod part.

Neme Business Adora Percariage terest

3. IF THE UNDERSIGNED ISA LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY:
‘8. _Ustbeiow he name, business adress and percarige of ownership rtret ofeach
() member and} manager. bere areno managers, wie "no managers" andincata how
the company is managed,

Name Business Arass Poreartageierest

>. _Ustbelow he names and eso afer, any. Mere reno ola, wt "no
cars”

Name Tie

4. _IF THE UNDERSIGNED IS A LAND TRUST, BUSINESS TRUST, ESTATE OR
(GrHer SMALAR ENTITY:

2. Ut betw te name and busines adiross ofeach indulge nity holding
egal eee he propery Pats the subject fhe rut.

Name Business Adress

.__Lstbelow ha name business addres and percentage of benef nares of ach
Benatar on whose behal Be at

same Business Adaross Percariage tres

5._ FF THEUNDERSIGNED IS ANY OTHERLEGAL ENTITY, rat eter to nty. hen
rode te name, busines accross andthe perceniags of terest ofan aval opal
‘hls having an ownership ooh benef inares re erty

eset te ently:

‘SECTION TWO; BUSINESS RELATIONSHIPS WITH CITY ELECTED OFFICIALS
‘A. _ DEFINITIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENT

1. The Underigned must inate whether ith a "business rlatonship" wth iy
‘locid offal nthe 12 monte botore the date us EDS signed

2. __"Pursuantio Chapter 2-158 of the Municipal Cade of Chiago (he Muncpal Code) a
“business relalonehip" means any “contractual oar pve aheas dalgy cf an
fil, ris or her spous, a fay erty wich an ofl or is or he poe has
“nancialinteree wih a person or eat) which ees an filo compensator peymest
‘thw amount of $2,500 or mor na calendar year; ba “tac rarest dows ol nse:
(@.any ownership trough purchase a fa mart valve or Wertance cess an 1% of he

‘St redone resect Go asec dena caput frac
‘hn ner a trary ray Gt pan eon
‘wun compary A otal der pte Dssoss sng dos rt ren
lateeip oan oicets spouse whan oy whan Si ewe fase
ezetenconcerng ores tga te reat bree at ryan on.

1B. CERTIRCATION
1, Hae the Underigned hada businoss relationship" wth any Cy elected ofa i he
‘2months btore the dato fis EDS ie wgned?

ves Ne

tye, please kent below the name(s) of such Cy ected ofa) and describe
such relatonehite

‘SECTION THREE: DISCLOSURE OF RETAINED PARTIES.
[A DEFINITIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS.

1. The Underignad must daclose omtaln Infomation sbout stomeys, its,
conti, connuarts subeoriracors, and ary ober person whom te Unaesiged hs
‘etd or expo to retin connection wi the Mater. parca, be Underagred ast
{Tacioes the name of each such person, hvher buiness across, the nae of the
‘elaonap, andthe total rout of tho fos ald restated tobe paid, The Undersigned
Isnetreqdredto clos employees who ar paid soll ough fhe Undergrads regia
peal

“oy mana any person () who, compensation oon baba ary person other han
Pimeot undertakes to iver any legitave or acminisrave acton, or () ar pat of
‘hone ty a on employee of another cues undertaking nuance any legilatve oF
‘rnrewve acton

2. the Underegnodia uncertain wheter alecosur is requred under his Seton, he
‘dersigned must ote sk te Cy whether cosure i requred of make the aioe,

8. CERTIFICATION
Each and evry atiomey byt, accountant, corsutat, subcontractor, oF oer parson
‘etaned or eracipated to be retained drecty by the Undersgned wit respect on
‘Connection wih the Malte ited baow fog lather, add sheets a8 necassary

‘Name Business _Raatlonship to Undersgned Fes (rica whether
(edt Addroes ‘tomy, ebb st) ‘aor estimated)

raines
rantetpates

Di Creocene rio nena WAV BEDI RETARD UNCED ON TERNS
reneenorne Vrewoen.
A. Tha Underigradi nt detrquentin the payment of ary tax administered be rc
Deparment of Revere, nor are the Undrsgned ors afiie deinguentn paying ay fe
eo, tax or cer charge owed oe iy. This uses al war charges, ewer chars,
Nconsa foos, parking Saas. poverty tes or sats tas ore are any Sach
\elnvneies, nto hom blow:

crore.

Ifthe laters “NA” the word “None ono respons appears onthe nes above, be
‘concushly presumed hat he Underignd cried othe above sateen.

.___ The Undorsigod and is afaios have rt, nthe pat fro years, boon found
“elaton of ary Cay, at rede ervormorial wo rguio Hare have en ay
‘ih vlan ot them blow.

ai

Ite letors "WA: tw word “Nona” o no response appears on the nes above, wba
onctuately presumed tat he Underigned carted fo he above satan.
C.__ tte Underigned is he Applicant. he Underigned and is afl wil nt us, nor
pormitthe subeontaciors to use, ay telly oni U.S. EPs List of Velatng Facies
nnecton wih be Matar the craton of me tht soc ity remain on he at

D._ If the Undersigned is the Applicant, the Underigned wil obtain fom any
corractrsissbeortactor hired ot be hired in cennecton wih the Mater coriiatons
fqual inform and substance to those in Sacton Fou 1, (AC) above and wi re without he
ror writen consent of Be Cy ue any such contractor fat as not roa
Such carlcatons otha ho Underigned Nas reason to bales has nat proved a cant
rode ruth cartcaons,

the Underigned ie unable o mak he oerticatorsrequredin Sectn For, parsgraph
(Gand) stove. ponte paras

Ife eters "NA" the word "None, or no response appears on the fnes above, wl be
concisely presumed fate Undaragred cerited i fhe above sateen.

4
‘ORDERED CHILD SUPPORT COMPLIANCE

For purposes of is part "Substantial Owner means anyinvidual who, dec xindrecty,
‘owner hos a 10% or more rterest no Uncersigned Note: This may hcude dvds
‘sloaod in Sacton One (Disoaureof Ownership inert), end ndviels closed hn
[27 EDS fled by an enty holding an intrest nthe Appear

{the Undergneds response blow is #1 or #2, han al of be Undersgned's Substartiat
COwrars mustromain ncomplancs wi any uch child supper blgators nl be Mars
compet. Fanure of he Undergrads Subtral Owners oremain  corgiance wih
thor did support obigatons n he manner seernin ether off conataes on event ot
setout

check one:

11. No Substantial Owner has been dectared in arearage on any cid suppet
cbagadore bythe Cau Couto Cook County, nase by another Mpls cout of
competent edition

2. Tract Couto Cook County, nas or another iro cout of compete
uraicton has issued an eter deciannone or moreSubsatal Ownersnererage
‘nha support obigatons Al sich Subtarial Ours however have erared
‘outapproved agreement forth payment fa such cid support owed, and a
‘uch Subetntal Owners aren camplonca wit such apreemort

3. The Creat Cour of Cook County, teas or ance tio court of competent
utedcson hes asued on oer ecarng one or more Subsaréal Owners Marerage
(cid support obugatons and (a) atleast one such Substaral Ore has ot
‘rised 9 couterprove ageaert Be parent oa sh a apt
‘Swed or) at stone auch Substantive afta comgtance wi
‘Sorovev your forte paymerte el such! support Owed or beh (2) ed
wo.

4 Thaw are Substantial Owner.
FURTHER CERTIFICATIONS

‘A_The Undersignd and, the Underiged legal ent, Bs praca fice,
Grocer, pares, members, manapes, executive decor:

1. are not presenty debared, suspended, proposed for debarmert, dectared
Inaipble or vourarty excluded fom ary raeacons by any federal sats
orca unt of goverment

2, have net win 8 tve-year paid preceding the data ofthis EDS, bean
convicted ofa cine oferae, acudged guy, of had a cl jane
‘ander spare brn connecton win aang, ering 9 oan
Deroming a publ (ederal sae roca) ransacton or corratunde’ apie
Tensocdon, a voaton of federal or stato andiust tes; aud,

3.10 not presen nce fr or cherie criminal o cy charged by &
Govermental erty (era state or fea) wih commision of ay of the
‘tenes enumerate in clause (AX2) of ts secon;

4. havent win a fve-yer patio preceding the date of tis EDS, had one or
‘ore pub ransactons federal, tat orca torial fr cause cr delat

5. have not, within a fe-year period preceding the date of his EDS, bean
Conte. edludged guy. foun lable nal proceeding, inary cin!
‘Sal acon inetd by te hyo byte federal goverment ary stat, Fay
‘her unt fal goverment

3. made an adnision of such conduct described in (1) or (2) above hat is &
‘mat frecord, bt haven been prosecute er such cong or

4 Volat te provlons of Secon 252-810 ofthe Munilpl Cade ving
‘Wage Ordinance).

(©. The Undersiped understands and sha como wa he appteaberequraments of
‘he Governertal Ets Ordnance ofthe iy, Te 2, Chap 2-188 ofthe Municbal
Code: and 2 al the aplable provalons6f Chapia 2:36 of to Municipal Case
(ice ofthe inspect Gana).

1D. Nether the Undersgned, Afaed Enity or Appcablo Party, o¢ any of ta
employes ofl, agents or partners isbared fom contracting wth any unto sao
‘local government as a reut f engaging no beng concted of (1) agg 9
Volaton of 720 LCS S/33E-3; 2 baetatng nolan of 720 ILC S33E or)
‘ry sear ofense of ary sata of te United Staton of America at cota te
‘tame samen a he ofenee of again or iar,

the Underigned is unatetcatyo any ofthe ove statment inte Part the
Underigned mast expan Blow:

Ite laters “NA the word "Non, oF no response appears on the nes above, wl be
conciuvely resumed hat be Undrsigned carted io fhe above statements
{Ackeal datrions maybe ound in Secon 232455) of tw Munkapal Case)

‘A CERTIFICATION
‘The Undesigned cries that he Underigned [check on]
es
rated
"Tear inet as defined in Seton 232-485) of he Municpal Cod,
B. ithe Undersigned 18 financial institution, then the Undersigned pledges:

‘Wo are not and wit rot become a predatory lender as deinen Chapr 232
ithe Murcpl Code. We ther pidge atone fou alates, ad nae
ftom wil becom, a predatory lnder ss defined in Chapr 2-32 of he
untipal Code We understand rat becorng a pedal lerda or becaring
an aflotao predatory lender may resin helo ofthe pve of ag
Banas wh the y=
11 Underigna is unabie to make tis pledge because itr aro afta 2
‘otned n Section 232-45(0) ofthe Muri! Code) isa pedal lander wit he
‘meaning ol Chapt 212.2 Muniapal Coa, expln ere (otc edauora pages
owcansay)

i elt “WA. the word “None” or ro response appears on theres above, wl be
‘Concuthel resumed tat he Underigne carted o Be above salem

Y, CERTIFICATION REGARDING INTEREST IN CITY BUSINESS,

Any wort ota that are deinod in Chapter 2-156 of the Municipal Code have the same
toaninge whan used mn fis Pan.

1. Inaccordance wih Secon 2-156-110 fhe Municipal Code:
‘Does ary ofl or employes ofthe Cy havea tran! terest in his her own
‘ame oh namo of ny er persan nthe Mater?
tives ine

NOTE: Mtyou anewered "No" to em V{t), youre not required to answer tems V2)
{r(2) below, Instead, review the cerifcationntam V4) and then proceed to Part VL
ityou anewored "Yes" totam V(t), you must fist respond to fen Viz) and provide
{he information requested in tem V{3) Afar responding t those tems, review the
‘ertieaton in kam Va) and proceed to Part Vi

2. Urls so pursuant to a process of compattve bdcng, no Cy lected oil or
‘mpoyes sha have a tearcal rest nis rhe wn nae on he rae oy
‘her person nthe putas fay property tat () belongs tte Cy. ors sold tor
‘nae or ensusront,o (Hf ok by ve of legal proces a hw su ofthe Cy
(colecivey, "cy Propery Sala?) Compensation fr property ken pursuant toe
{Gaysominort domain power des not consti ainarcaiarest wine meaning
ofthis Pan.

este Matric Cy Propet Se?
(ve

3. Fyousnawored"yes" totam (1), provid the names and business adressosf the
ayn rapes hr oat ety nae fw re
‘Business Areas Nati of reat

4. The Undersigned ther erties ttn ried ancl ineestin he Matar wl
be acquired by any Cy ofl or employee.

Yi CERTIFICATION REGARDING SLAVERY ERA BUSINESS,

“The Underigned has exarced any and al rcords of he Underiged and any and a
rodoconsreites for recrts of vesment pots from saver, he save dusty,

{Scamp win tee dacoawrerequremerts may make he Matlerio which Bis EDS prtans
volable bythe Cty

Please check sther(1) or (2) below. Ifthe Undersigned checks (2) the Undersigned
must disclose below orn an attachment to thls EDS all requste information a8 vat
{orth in that paragraph 2).

1, The Underign verifies hat) he Undersgnadhas searched ny and alerts
Te Undersgned ed any andl redocassr ene lr recor of ester ors
fom sever, he slave cushy, oF Saveholer insurance poles, an (2) the Underaged
fas ound no records of rvesronts opts For slavery, Pe saveindusty,o Saveholet
Ireurnce poles and recor of Tamos of ry staves or lveholer,

___2. The Underign vols that as @rsut f conducting the search in sto (18)
‘ove, he Undorsgned hee ud records relating to ivestrarts profs om saver. 8
‘Save industry, or slaveholer Insurance polcies andlor theatres of any saves or
Sevehcders. The Underignd vortis tat he folowing consis ul afore fal euch
record

SEGTIONFIVE: CERTIFICATIONS FOR FEDERALLY-FUNDED MATTERS,

1, GERTIFIGATION REGARDING LOBBYING

|A. __Ustbelow the names of andl registred unr th feralLbbying Disclosure
‘cto 195 wnohave made boyingcortacs on eho the Undersgne wh respecto he
Mater: [Begin iether, add sheets a necessary}

[tno explanation appears or bogin onthe nes above, o ifthe ata "NA" or te
‘word "None" appear, Il be conclusively presumed that the Undarsigned means
{hat NO Inahvidvals egitered under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made
{obbying contacts on behalf of the Undersied with respect fo the Matter]

‘The Undersigrathas not spent and wl ot expend any federay appropri undsto
fay any vidal ted n Paragraph (A) above ers or hercbbyig bcos ao pay any
Irdhidual ouerceo emp ituenceanficor cx erpayeect ony a90cy, 8 dened
by appeal eceral lw, aramber of Congress anole or emoloyee of Congress of an
‘ompoyoe fa member of Congress canecton wih he award fay federal funded
{trace making any edealy enced grantee. orang ary cooprave agreement.
‘orto econ, conn, rene among, met any feral funded contre, gar ban
caoperabve agrment.

.__ The Undersigned wi subrtan updated corticaton at he and of each calendar
{uaner in wich ere coc any event et malay afte crac oe starants
and irforaton et ohm paragraphs (A) and (8) above,

tne Matai foderaty funded and any turds cher hn edoraty apron funds have
boon or wl be pad to ny Indu  nturcing °aterping ence an ofcer or
‘employe cf any agency (as detne by appicabl odor iw), aaa of Congress, on
‘ficer or emoyee of Congress, or an employee ofa member of Congress in connection
‘th ba Mate, be Underigned most compete ad sutmt Standard Form,
1D. The Underignad certs that ether () tis nt an organization described in secon
501(0X4) of he Itemal Revenue Code of T9B6;o (tis an organization desctbd in
‘secton 801(0(4) off Itaral Revere Code of 1988 but has no engaged and wn
‘engage in Labbying Actes”

.__ tbe Undersignadis the Appcant.the Undrsigned must bain cereatons quan
fxm and substares to paregrae IA) Brain HO) above om al ssconrector bare
awards any subconvact end Be Undorsigned mat maintain al such subcontertry
‘certain fr the uraton of te Matter nd must maka such cersfcaione prompt
‘rvalabi the ly upon request

1k GERTIFICATION REGARDING NONSEGREGATED FACILITIES

'A.__ tte Undersigned i the Applcart, te Undergned does ot and wat nt maintain or
‘rove forts employees ary segregsie facies at ary ots esablshmans and tect
‘and wi not part ts employes to perorm er serces at any location inde ts cone
“ahore segregated facies are mained

“Segregated facilites” as used inthis provlon, means any wang rooms, work
ars, estoor, washrooms, restaurants andthe esting areas, ne cocks, char fons
and ober storage or crossing areas, parting is, cnkng fountain, rcreaton oF
forterinment areas, ranspariaton, and housing proved for epoyees, hat ae soprgated
by ext drecave or ara in fac segregated on the basi of race, co, region sox, oF
raitoral origin because ot hab local or employee custom, or ohare.

However, separated or single-user ostooms and necessary resing or teping areas must
‘be prowiodto asur privacy between te axes,

8, te Underignedis the Applcant ae he Matis aderaly ded, tho Underigned
il, bfore the award of subconiract (far), obtain Wena erate rm proposed
‘xitorractor under which te subcontract wilbe subjctto Be Equal Opperiny Causa.
Contacts and subcontracts excooding $10.00, or having an agprgate valve exceeding
'$10,000in any 12menth pec, are generalysubecto he Equal Opportunity Clause. Son
445 CER Part 60 fr furor Ifomnation regarding fw Equal Opprunty Cine, The
Undergned musteain te cartcasors recured by Ys paragraph (8) orth drain tne
contact any} and uct make such onatons promptly velo the Cy pon eg

c.f Underiged ithe Appcant andthe Matis federal funded, the Appcant
‘orward he poe st orth below to proposed subcorracrs

NOTICE TO PROSPECTIVE SUBCONTRACTORS OF REQUIREMENTS FOR
CERTIFICATIONS OF NONSEGREGATED FACILITIES.

‘subcontractors must submit othe Contractor a Certicaton of Nonsogregated
Facies before te award of any subcorract under which he subcorracior wi be
‘subject te federal Equa Opporunty Clause. Te subcontecor may submit such
‘erecta ear foreach subeorrct or for al subcontracts during peti (e
‘quay, seriereuay, oF ory)

oo REGARDING E

Federal regustions require prospacove contactors fo federaly inded Matter og, fe
‘Alcan and proposed suoconracors sub fs lalowrg tration hha oF
\wrtng at he cue of ragotators. (NOTE: This Part Ils tobe competed only the
Undersigned isthe Applicant)

‘A. Have you developed ac do you have on fe afrmatve ston programs pursuant 2
applicable federal equations? (See 41 CFR Part 60.2)

vee {ne UNA
Have you partcpated many previous contracts or subcorract tc the

equal oppor

ives tN, NA

‘The Ct/s Goverment Ets and Campaign Fencing Ordinances, haps 2-186and2-
164 othe Munispal Code, Emp cath dues and abigatons on nchidals or eno:

nde lng program #avelaie on Ine a www hecchicanp aR/Ecw, and may asd
be obtained fam he Cl’ Board of exes, 740 N. Seow St, Suto 500, Chcage, IL
(80610, (912) 744.5600, The foaming i sitive ony aed dows et puerto cover very
aspect of Chapters 2-158 and 2164 fhe Mncpal Code. The Undersgned must comply
‘ay wth te appeabecrinances

[2 BY.CHECKING THIS BOX THEUNDERSIGNED xocmnoes xT
‘ye Unconsnen Ver aos Tar HEC's GoveneenTa Enecs
aura Fraveac Onaeances, Aone OTR TMS:

1) Prove that any contract negotiated entre no or prtomed in vilaon of
{he Cys ebies lows can be vided byte Cy.

2) Limite git ae fevore any nual ony can give cfr gv any
(hy offal, employee, contrac or cancate fr elacad Cy ofice othe
Spouse orminar hide any of er, lca

‘8, enycashgfter any anonynus of and
B. ytbaced on & mutual understanding at hw ly fa or
‘rnpyee's oly contracts actos o decisions willbe

Inlenceain anyway by te A.

5) Prot any City elected oficial or Cy employes from having a tancil
[erst rect orndecy, any cored work tansacon or business oe
‘iy, tat nest has Coste preserva of $5 00 of more, thet
‘Safest ent re one to recive mare than $2500 per yer.

44) Prohibit any appointed City ofl tom engaging In any contact, work,
oncocton or busmessofte iy, uss he mater is who unrated oe
spponted oflsals dutes oF responsbies

5) Provide hat Cty employees and ofc, rt spouses o minor cre,
‘Carnot reeave Compareaton or anything of valve i retum for adi of
‘Ssuotanos en matars concoring fa operaion or busines of he Cy less
‘he sores ae wholy unrelaiod'o Bet ly des an responses.

18) Provide thatformer iy amployees and ota cannot for a pero fone year
ther ho Cty employment canses, asst represen anther on ay mater
Irctvg the Cty fs we wh he Cy, hay were personaly and abstr
lovetved the sama mater
17) Provide that former iy employees and offcils cannot ever assist or represent
rater cn Cy conta, whe wth be Cy, they were personaly waved
‘recty supervised he formulation, nepofiaon cr executon of at contac.

LTE,

DISCLOSURE
‘The Underigned understands and agrees that:

A. The canteens, icosures, and acnowadgments contained In tis EDS wi
become part of any contact or cher agreement between the Applicant andthe Cy in
‘annecton th te Mtr whther rocsamert Cy asotace, oer Cy acon and ae
‘metal inducements othe Cys execton ofan cortactortakrg eer acon wit ropect
{Die Mater. he Underegoed understand hal ms comy wih a ates, oars
‘td rogue on which Pls EDS is based.

8. _ the Cry determines hat ny lnfornatonprovtedin Bis EDS fale, incomplete or

‘nacouraia, any cotrct oer apeament connection wih which fe subd may 50

‘eecided ofbe wad vodabl, andthe Ck may preue an remedies under e conractor

‘areement (fn rescidod, vid or votdebl) at aw, orn equ. nung terinang the

Scares pat eter dcr ow te Urania
propa moter ranaactone wth te Cy

C.__Somacr atthe infomation provided on his EDS and ay tachment ois EDS
tay be mace avait he pus on he ntemet.nresponse oa oad of oman
‘etreques, of oberwic. By competing and egring is EDS, Pe Underagned waives ae
‘einane ary pease righs or ur ach fay Rove ag ie iy nconnacon whe
Puc relate of fomaton contalnedin tis EDS and ako autrze the Cy overt te
Sceuroy ol any information susie ois EDS.

Tra Undersgnd has nthe or esered ry Sacstien as canoe reas
{nt Undersignod ora othe Mato ar irtomaton data lan te rand use
© purpose fr which the Applicant seks Cy Cound or cher Cry agency action.

.___Thalnforaton provided in EDS must be haptcuont inthe event changes, the
[Underlgnd mat supplement fs EDS up abe tina te Cy taka acon one Mair
‘CERTIFICATION
Under penaty of pry, the person sging blow: (1) warns hat ales auorzod ©
‘tocue tis EDS on bal of the Undergred, and (2) warrants at af caileasons and
Stmnamerts contained inthis ES are to, accurst and complete os lhe date Ruined to
teow,

frdetenerRe dusk aalpagtea» (88. ome 9/4/03

y|

[RETURN THIS “DISCLOSURE OF RETAINED PARTIES*
FORM WITHIN 7 CALENDAR DAYS OF CITY NOTIFICATION

‘DISCLOSURE OF RETAINED PARTIES
‘A. Dsfntions nd Disclosure Reavicements

| __Asused herein, "Contractor" means person o entity Who has any contac r lease withthe City of
Chicago he iy"),

2. Pursuant to Executive Order 97-1, every city contac nd lease must be accompanied bya disclosure
¥atement providing cerain information abou afore, lobbyists, accountants, constants, subcontractors, and
‘ter persons whom the Contractor has retained or expect to retain with respect tothe contacto ese. In
particular, the Contractor mast disclose the name of ech such person, hs or her business adres, the mati ofthe
‘elationship, and the amount of es paid o estimate o be paid. The Conracor ino required to disclose
‘employees who are pad solely through the Contractor's regular parol,

3. "Lobbyist" means any person (a) who for compensation or on bealf of any person othe than himsei€
Uunderake oiflence any lgiiatv or administrative ation, or (9) any pat of whose duties ts an employee of
nother includes underaking a influence any legislative or administrative neton.

Contractor hereby certifies as fliows:
1, This Dislosre elites tthe following transition

Specification or other ideatiying number: 21324
Description of gods or services to be provided under Contac: Professional Land Surveying Services
2. NameofContmctor: Christopher B. Burke Engineering, Ltd.

3. EACH AND EVERY atiorey, lobbys, accountant, consultant, subcontractor, of othe perton retained or
anticipated tobe retained by the Contactor with espect oon connection withthe contac or lease std belo,
‘Anach addtional pages ifnecesary. NOTE: You must include information abou certified MBEIWBES you have
‘Teained or anccipae retaining, even if you have already provided tha information elsewhere inthe contect documents

RELATONSIP HES (dene
ousniss Gettin, Tends
uae =—s os
Shah Entocering, Inc, SeMeAMBN ES cost sueanerctor #354, West.
i 21 Oh Ecos surcontractr £14, Ze
eT
Consulting Group Ste. 1600, Chicago 60621 Lobbyist = N/A

‘CHECK HERE IF NO SUCH PERSONS HAVE BEEN RETAINED OR ARE ANTICIPATED TO
BE RETAINED:
4. The Contractor understands and agrees as follows:

‘a The information provided herein isa material inducement tothe City's execution of.
the contacto other action with respect to which this Disclosure of Retained Parties form is being
‘rccuted, andthe City may rely on the information provided herein. Furthermore, ifthe City
trenmines that any informetion provided herein is false, incomplete or inaccurate, the City may
sererpate the contractor other transection, terminate the Contractors participation inthe contract
‘other transaction, and/or decline to allow the Contractor to participate in other contracts oF
transactions with the City

Ifthe Contractor is uncertain whether a disclosure is required under the Executive
‘Onder, the Contractor must ether askthe Contract Administrator or his or her manager whether
disclosure is required or make the disclosure.

«. This Disclosure of Retained Parties form, some or all ofthe information provided
herein, and any attachments may be made available to the public onthe Internet, in response to &
Freedom of information Actrequest, or otherwise. The Contractor waives and releases any
foseible rights or claims it may have against the City in connection with the public release of
Prfommation contained in the completed Dislosure of Retained Parties form and any atiachments

Under penalty of perjury, I certify that Lam authorized to execute this Disclosure of
Retained Parties on Behalf of the Contractor and that the information disclosed herein is true and

=
ages at
pr Ps

Subscribed and swom to before me
this 2nd day of August, 2004

‘OFFICIAL SEAL

MELISSA L ZIMMERMAN,
serany mic sTaToF no

