Contract Summary Sheet

Contract (PO) Number: 5856
Specification Number: 18786

Name of Contractor: DESCOTO, INC

City Department: DEPARTMENT OF WATER MANAGEMENT

‘Title of Contract: Profesional (Target Market) Construction Management Consulong Services

‘Term of Contract: Start Date: 8/1/04
End Date: 7/31/07

Dollar Amount of Contract (or maximum compensation ifa Term Agreement) (DUR):
$51,000,000 00

Brief Description of Work: Professional (Target Market) Construction Management Consulting
Sermces

Procurement Services Contact Person: OLIVIA MILTON

Sdal doPy

Spesfication No: 18786
‘Contract No: $856
‘Requisition Nos 10724

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEME!

STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
FOR
PROFESSIONAL CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT CONSULTING
SERVICES
(TARGET MARKET)
BETWEEN

THE CITY OF CHICAGO
DEPARTMENT OF WATER MANAGEMENT.

AND

D’ESCOTO, INC.
Vendor Code : 1008400

RICHARD M. DALEY
MAYOR
(Cay Funds)

‘The Cay may from ome tote reve thes term and condones

Reve Jamuary 14,2004 (TA)
ARTICLE 1.

.. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF CONSULTANT

1. COMPENSATION .

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT
STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS.

‘TABLE.OF CONTENTS

i

DEFINITIONS .
Definitions...

Order of Precedence of Component Parts

‘Scope of Services .

sual Artists Rights Act Waiver
Records and Audits

(@) Records
(b) Audits .
Confidentiality . oe
Assignments and Subcontracts

TIME LIMITS FOR PERFORMANCE ..
‘Schedule for Performance .......- ++.
‘Timeliness of Performance.

Basis of Payment .
Method of Payment
Cetera for Payment

|. DISPUTES. fe ee ae fees 1s

| COMPLIANCE WITH ALL LAWS ..... cect ee lS
Compliance with All Laws Generally. foe nS

Rented January 14,2004 (TA) 1
ARTICLE 10.

ARTICLE 11,

ARTICLE 12

Compliance wit te Amexions with Disb Act ad Otter Laws Conering
Accessibility ..

Inspector General . :
Business Relationships with Elected Officials.
Chicago Living Wage" Ontinaace
Deemed Inclusion... ..

SPECIAL CONDITIONS ..

EVENTS OF DEFAULT, REMEDIES, TERMINATION, SUSPENSION AND

RIGHT TO OFFSET .... 24
Events of Default Defined 24
Remedies .. 26
Early Termination ne
‘Suspension .... 2.28
Right to Offset 129
). GENERAL CONDITIONS 30
Entire Agreement . 30
@ General «. bese 30
(©) No Collateral Agreements - 231
(©) NoOmissions...... es)
Counterparts wl
o 32

32

32

33

33

3

34

NOTICES ... 34
AUTHORITY : ee cee nee 35
‘SPECIAL CONDITIONS REGARDING MBE/WBE COMMITMENT... 35

Revised January 14, 2004 (T4) ii
List of Exhibits

= Seope of Services

‘Attachment A - Key Personnel
‘Attachment B - Schedule of Performance
‘Attachment C - Project Insurance Requirements

= Compensation

Attachment A - Maximum Hourly Rates
‘Attachment B - City of Chicago Travel Reimbursement Guidelines
‘Attachment C - Consultant and Subconsultant Overhead Absorption Rates

Exhibt3 = MBE/WBE Commitments
Schedules C-1
Schedules D-1

Exhibit4 = No Change Affidavits and Disclosure of Retained Parties,

= Chicago Department of Water Security

Revised January 14, 2004 (TA) iit
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT.

‘This Agreement is entered into as ofthe _day of. by
and between D'ESCOTO, INC. an lines Corporation, Consultant), focied st One East

and the City of Chicago ("City") a municipal corporation
and home rule unit of local government existing under the laws ofthe Stat of Tinos, acting
through its Department of Water Management ("Department").

‘The City and Consultant agree as follows"

‘TERMS AND CONDITIONS

ARTICLE 1. DEFINITIONS
11 Definitions

‘The following words and phrases have the following meanings for purposes of
this Agreement:

"Additional Services" means those services which are within the general scope of
Services ofthis Agreement, but beyond the description of services required under
‘Section 2.1 and Exhibit | and all services reasonably necessary to complete the
‘Additional Services tothe standards of performance required by this Agreement
‘Any Additional Services requested by the Department require the approval of the
City in a written amendment under Section 9.3 of this Agreement before
Consultant is obligated to perform those Additional Services and before the City
becomes obligated to pay for those Additional Services

“Agreement” means this Professional Services Agreement, including all exhibits,
‘whch ate attached to it and incorporated init by reference, and all amendments,
‘modifications or revisions made in accordance with its terms.

“Chief Procurement Officer” means the Chief Procurement Officer ofthe City
‘of Chicago and any representative duly authorized m wating to act on his behalf

“Commissioner” means the Commissioner of the Department of Water

Management, and any representative authorized in wniting to act on the
Commissioner's behalf

‘Rensed January 14, 2004 (T4) Ft
12

13

"Services" means, collectively, the services, duties and responsibilities described
in Amicle 2 and Exhibit | ofthis Agreement and any and all work necessary to
‘complete them or cay them out fully and to the standard of performance required
inthis Agreement.

Subcontractor” means any person or entity with whom Consultant contracts to
provide any part of the Services, including subcontractors and subconsultants of
any tie, whether or notin privity with Consultant.

Interpretation

(@) The term “include” (in all its forms) means "include, without limitation”
unless the context clearly states otherwise.

(b) All references inthis Agreement to Articles, Sections or Exhibits, unless
otherwise expressed or indicated are to the Articles, Sections or Exhibits
‘ofthis Agreement.

(©) Words importing persons include firms, associations, partnerships, truss,
corporations and other legal entities, including public bodies, as well as
‘natural persons.

(@) Any headings preceding the text ofthe Articles and Sections of this
‘Agreement, and any table of contents or marginal notes appended to it, are
solely for convenience or reference and do not constitute a part of this
‘Agreement, nor do they affect the meaning, construction or effect of this
Agreement.

(©) Words importing the singular include the plural and vice versa. Words of
the masculine gender include the correlative words of the feminine and
neuter genders.

( —Allreferences to a number of days mean calendar days, unless indicated
otherwise

‘Order of Precedence of Component Parts

In the event of any conflict or monsisteney between the tems set forth in Article
1 through Anicle 12 ofthis Agreement and the terms set forth in Exhibit L
through Exhubit 4, including the Atachment to the Exhibits, the tems and
provisions contained in Article | through Arucle 12 of this Agreement wil take

Rensed January 1, 2004 (TA) 2
precedence over the terms and provisions contained in Exhibit 1 through Exhibit 4
except tothe extent such terms and provisions are more favorable to the City

Article| through Article 12 gover the legal relationship between the partes and
Exhibit 1 and Exhibit2 describe the Services Consultant isto perform under this
‘Agreement, set forth the Key Personnel, set forth the time limits for Consultant's
performance, set forth the insurance requirements forthe project, and set forth the
compensation schedule for Consultant. As a result, the City and Consultant agree
that any terms or matters set forth in either Exhibit | or Exhibit, including the
Attachments tothe Exhibits, that do not exclusively pertain to defining the
Services Consultant isto perform, the Key Personnel, the time limits for
Consultam’s performance, the insurance requirements, and the compensation
schedule for Consultant are of no effect as to this Agreement and, regardless of
‘whether or not the City approves such terms or matters, are not binding on the
City, except to the extent that they would diminish the City’s obligations under
this Agreement or increase Consultant's obligations or liabilities under this
‘Agreement

ARTICLE 2. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF CONSULTANT

2

22

‘Scope of Services

‘Consultant must provide the Services described in Exhibit 1, Scope of Services
and Schedule for Performance, and any and all work necessary to complete them
or carry them out fully and to the standard of performance required in this
‘Agreement. Consultant must provide the Services in accordance with the
standards of performance set forth in Section 2.3 Consultant must provide and
‘maintain at Consultant's own expense, the insurance coverages and requirements
specified in Exhibit 1.

Deliverables

In carrying out its Services, Consultant must prepare or provide to the City various
Deliverables. "Deliverables" include work product, such as designs, plans and
specifications, written reviews, recommendations, reports and analyses, produced
by Consultant for the City.

‘The City may reject Deliverables that do not include relevant information or data,
‘or do not include all documents or other materials specified inthis Agreement or
reasonably necessary for the purpose for which the City made this Agreement or
for which the City intends to use the Deliverables Ifthe City determines that

Consultant has failed to comply withthe foregoing standards, it has 30 days from

Rensed January 14, 2004 (TA) 3
24

the discovery to notify Consultant of ts failure. If Consultant does not correct the
failure, if is possible to do so, within 30 days after receipt of notice from the
City specifying the failure, then the City, by written notice, may treat the failure as
«a default ofthis Agreement under Section 8.1.

Partial or incomplete Deliverables may be accepted for review only when required
for a specific and well-defined purpose for the benefit of the City and when
consented to in advance by the City. Such Deliverables will not be considered as
satisfying the requirements of this Agreement and partial or incomplete
Deliverables in no way relieve Consultant of its commitments under this
‘Agreement.

‘Standard of Performance

Consultant must perform all Services required of it under this Agreement with
that degre of skill, care and diligence normally shown by a consultant performing
services of a scope and purpose and magnitude comparable with the nature ofthe
Services tobe provided under this Agreement.

Consultant must assure that all Services that require the exercise of professional
skill or judgment are accomplished by professionals qualified and competent in
the applicable discipline and appropriately licensed, if required by law.
Consultant must provide copies of any such licenses. Consultant remains
responsible for the professional and technical accuracy of all Services or
Deliverables furnished, whether by Consultant or its Subcontractors or others on
its behalf. All Deliverables must be prepared in a form and content satisfactory to
the Department and delivered in a timely manner consistent with the requirements
of this Agreement.

{Consultant fails to comply with the foregoing standards, Consultant must
perform again, at its own expense, all Services required to be re-performed as a
direct or indirect result of that failure. Any review, approval, acceptance or
payment for any of the Services by the City does not relieve Consultant of its
responsibility forthe professional skill and care and technical accuracy of its
Services and Deliverables. This provision in no way limits the City’s rights
‘against Consultant either under this Agreement, at law or in equity.

Personnel

(a) Adequate Staffing

‘Rented January 14,2004 (TA) 4
©)

©

Consultant must, upon receiving a fully executed copy ofthis Agreement,
‘assign and maintain during the term of this Agreement and any extension
of it an adequate staff of competent personne! tht is fully equipped,
licensed as appropriate, available as needed, qualified and assigned to
perform the Services. Consultant must include among its staf the Key
Personnel and positions as identified below. The level of staffing may be
revised from time to time by notice in writing from Consultant to the City
‘and with written consent ofthe City, which consent the City will not
‘withhold unreasonably. I the City fails to object to the revision within 14
<days after receiving the notce, then the revision will be considered
accepted by the City.

Key Personnel

Consultant must not reassign or replace Key Personnel without the written
‘consent ofthe City, which consent the City will not unreasonably
‘withhold. "Key Personnel” means those job titles and the persons
assigned to those positions in accordance with the provisions of this
‘Section 2.4(b), and set forth in Exhibit 1, Attachment I-A . The
Department may at any time in writing notify Consultant that the City will,
‘no longer accept performance of Services under this Agreement by one or
‘more Key Personnel listed. Upon that notice Consultant must immediately
‘suspend the services of the key person or persons and must replace him or
her or them in accordance withthe terms of this Agreement.

Salaries and Wages

‘Consultant and Subcontractors must pay all salaries and wages due all
employees performing Services under this Agreement unconditionally and
at lest once « month without deduction or rebate on any account, except
‘only fr those payroll deductions that are mandatory by law or are
permitted under applicable law and regulations. Lf the performance of
this Agreement Consultant underpays any such salaries or wages, the
Comptroller forthe City may withhold, out of payments due to Consultant,
an amount sufficient to pay to employees underpaid the difference between,
the salanes or wages required to be paid under this Agreement and the
salaries or wages actually pid these employees for the total number of
hhours worked. The amounts withheld may be disbursed by the
‘Comptroller for and on account of Consultant to the respective employees
to whom they are due The partes acknowledge that this Section 2.4(c) is
solely forthe benefit ofthe City and that it does not grant any third party
beneficiary rights

Rensed January 14,2006 (TA) 5
en cl emmy Sr

2S — Indemnification

@

©

©

‘Consultant must defend, indemnify, keep and hold harmless the City, its
officers, representatives, elected and appointed officals, agents and
‘employees from and against any and all Losses, ncluding those related to:

(0) injury, death or damage of orto any person or property;

i) any infringement or violation of any property right (including any
patent, trademark or copyright);

ii) Consultant's failure to perform or cause to be performed
‘Consultant's covenants and obligations as and when required under
this Agreement, including Consultants failure to perform its
obligations to any Subcontractor;

Gv) the City's exercise ofits rights and remedies under Section 8.2 of
this Agreement; and

(¥) injuries to or death of any employee of Consultant or any
‘Subcontractor under any workers compensation statute

"Losses" means, individually and collectively, liabilities of every kind,
including losses, damages and reasonable costs, payments and expenses
(such as, but not limited to, cout costs and reasonable attomeys fees and
disbursements), claims, demands, actions, suits, proceedings, judgments or
settlements, any or all of which in any way arse out of or relate to
Consultant's breach ofthis Agreement or to Consultants negligent or
otherwise wrongful acts or omissions o those ofits officers, agents,
‘employees, consultants, Subcontractors or licensees

Consultant's obligations to indemnify, keep, and hold harmless the ity,
its officers, representatives, elected and appointed officials, agents and
‘employees from and against any and all Losses excludes that portion of
Losses caused by any act, error or omission on the part of the particular
City office(s), representative(s), elected and appointed officials), agent(s)
‘or employee(s) seeking indemnification under this Section 2.5 1f
‘Consultant’s indemnification would violate the provisions of the
Construction Contract Indemnification for Negligence Act, 740 ILCS
3510.01 et seq

Rensed January 14,2004 (TA) 6
em Ae Dag En Set

26

@

©

3)

‘At the City Corporation Counsel’s option, Consultant, subject to Section
2.5(6) above, must defend all suts brought upon all such Losses and must
pay all costs and expenses incidental to them, but the City has the right, at
its option, to participate, at its own cos, in the defense of any suit, without
relieving Consultant of any of its obligations under this Agreement. Any
settlement must be made only with the prior wntten consent of the City
Corporation Counsel, if the settlement requires any action on the part of
the City.

To the extent permissible by law, Consultant waives any limits tothe
‘amount of its obligations to indemnify, defend or contribute to any sums
due under any Losses, including any claim by any employee of Consultant
that may be subject to the Workers Compensation Act, 820 ILCS 305/1 et
‘eq. or any other related law or judicial decision (such as, Koreckt v
Cyclops Welding Corporation, 146 Il. 2d 155 (1991)). The City,
however, does not waive any limitations it may have on its liability under
‘the Illinois Workers Compensation Act, the Illinois Pension Code, any
‘other statute or judicial decision.

‘The indemnities in this section survive expiration or termnation of this
‘Agreement for matters occurring ot arising during the term of this
‘Agreement or asthe result of or during Consultant's performance of
Services beyond the term. Consultant acknowledges thatthe requirements
set forth in this section to indemnify, keep and save harmless and defend
the City are apart from and not limited by Consultant's duties under this
‘Agreement, including the insurance requirements in Exhibit 1 of this
‘Agreement

Ownership of Documents

All Deliverables, data, findings or information in any form prepared, assembled or
‘encountered by or provided to Consultant under this Agreement are property of
the City, including, as further described in Section 2.7 below, all copyrights
inherent in them or their preparation. During performance of its Services,
Consultant is responsible for any loss or damage to the Deliverables, data,
findings or information while in Consultant's or any Subcontractor's possession.
Any such lost or damaged Deliverables, data, findings or mformation must be
restored at the expense of Consultant. If not restorable, Consultant must bear the
cost of replacement and of any loss suffered by the City on account of the
destruction, as provided in Section 25.

Revered January 14,2004 (TA) 7
a cl gy Sr

27

Copyright Ownership

‘Consultant and the City intend that, to the extent permitted by law, the
Deliverables to be produced by Consultant atthe City's instance and expense
under this Agreement are conclusively deemed "works made for hire" within the
‘meaning and purview of Section 101 of the United States Copyright Act, 17
‘USS.C. §101 et seq., and that the City will be the sole copyright owner of the
Deliverables and ofall aspects, elements and components of them in which
copyright can subsist and of all rights to apply for copyright registration or
prosecute any claim of intingement.

‘To the extent that any Deliverable does not qualify as a "work made for hire,”
Consultant hereby irevocably grants, conveys, bargains, sells, assigns, transfers
and delivers tothe City its successors and assigns, all righ, title and interest in
‘and to the copyrights and all U.S. and foreign copyright registrations, copyright
applications and copynght renewals for them, and other intangible, intellectual
property embodied in or pertaning to the Deliverables prepared forthe City under
this Agreement, and all goodwill relating to them, fre and clear of any liens,
claims or other encumbrances, tothe fullest extent permitted by law. Consultant
‘all, and will cause all of its Subcontractors, employees, agents and other persons
‘within its control to, execute all documents and perform all acts thatthe City may
reasonably request in order to assist the City in perfecting its rights in and tothe
copyrights relating to the Deliverables, at the sole expense ofthe City. Consultant
‘warrants to the City, its successors and assigns, that on the date of transfer
Consultant is the lawful owner of good and marketable title in and tothe
copyrights for the Deliverables and has the legal rights to fully assign them.
Consultant further warrants that it has not assigned and will ot assign any
copyrights and that t has not granted and will not grant any licenses, exclusive or
‘nonexclusive, to any other party, and that it isnot a party to any other agreements
or subject to any other restrictions with respect to the Deliverables. Consultant
‘warrants that the Deliverables are complete, entire and comprehensive within the
standard of performance under Section 2.3 of this Agreement and that the
Deliverables constitute a work of original authorship. The City will not reuse the
Deliverables to build other projects, without the wntten consent of Consultant.

‘Visual Artists Rights Act Waiver

Consultant waives any and allright, in any work of visual art that may be
provided pursuant to this Agreement, that may be granted or conferred under
Section 106A and Section 113 of the United States Copyright Act (17 U.S.C. §
101 etseq,) (the "Copyright Act")

Rensed January 14,2004 (TA) 8
ama Ach ea gn et

29 Records and Audits

(@) Records

@

@

‘Consultant must deliver or cause to be delivered to the City all
documents, including all Deliverables prepared for the City under
the terms of this Agreement, to the City promptly in accordance
‘with the time limits prescribed in this Agreement, and if no time
limit is specified, then upon reasonable demand for them or upon
‘termination or completion of the Services under this Agreement.
In the event of the failure by Consultant to make such delivery
‘upon demand, then and in that event, Consultant must pay to the
City any damages the City may sustain by reason of Consultant's
failure.

Consultant must maintain any such records including Deliverables
not delivered to the City or demanded by the City for a period of 5
years after the final payment made in connection with this
‘Agreement. Consultant must not dispose of such documents
following the expiration of this period without notification of and
‘itten approval from the City in accordance with Article 10.

Audits

oy

Renzed January 14, 2004 (TA)

Consultant and any of Consultant's Subcontractors must furnish the
Department with all information that may be requested pertaining
to the performance and cost ofthe Services. Consultant must
maintain records showing actual time devoted and costs incurred.
Consultant must keep books, documents, paper, records and
‘accounts in connection with the Services open to audit, inspection,
copying, abstracting and transcription and must make these records
available to the City and any other interested governmental agency,
«at reasonable times during the performance of its Services.

To the extent that Consultant conducts any business operations
‘separate and apart from the Services required under this Agreement
using, for example, personnel, equipment, supplies or facilities also
uused in connection with this Agreement, then Consultant must
‘maintain and make simularly available to the City detailed records
‘supporting Consultant's allocation to this Agreement of the costs
and expenses attributable to any such shared usages
ae A gn Sa,

Gi) Consultant must maintain its books, records, documents and other
evidence and adopt accounting procedures and practices sufficient
to reflect properly all costs of Whatever nafure claimed to have
‘been incurred and anticipated to be incurred for or in connection
with the performance ofthis Agreement. This system of
accounting must be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles and practices, consistently applied
‘throughout.

(iv) No provision inthis Agreement granting the City aright of access
to records and documents is intended to impair, limit or affect any
right of access to such records and documents which the City
‘would have had inthe absence of such provisions.

(¥) The City may in its sole discretion audit the records of Consultant
or its Subcontractors, or both at anytime during the tem ofthis
‘Agreement or within five years after the Agreement ends, in
connection with the goods, wok, or services provided under this
‘Agreement. Each calendar year or partial calendar years
considered an “audited period "If, asa result of such an audit, itis
<etermined that Consultant or any of its Subcontractors has
overcharged the City inthe audited period, the City will notify
Consultant. Consultant must then promptly reimburse the City for
‘ny amounts the City bas paid Consultant du to the overcharges
and also some or all ofthe cost ofthe audit as follows:

‘A Ifthe audit has revealed overcharges to the City
representing less than 5% of the total value, based on the
Agreement prices, of the goods, work, or services provided
in the audited period, then the Consultant must reimburse
the City for 50% of the cost ofthe audit and 50% of the
‘cost of each subsequent audit that the City conducts;

B. If, however, the audit has revealed overcharges to the City
representing 5% or more of the total value, based on the
Agreement prices, of the goods, work, or services provided
in the audited period, then Consultant must reimburse the
City for the full cost of the audit and of each subsequent
audit.

Failure of Consultant to reimburse the City in accordance with subsection
‘Aco B above is an event of default under this Agreement, and Consultant

Rewsed Jarry 14,2008 (TA) 10
ate peg Se

will be hable for all ofthe City’s costs of collection, including any court
costs and attorneys’ fees.

2.10 Confidentiality

2a

@

©

©

All Deliverables and reports, data, findings or information in any form
prepared, assembled or encountered by or provided by Consultant under
‘this Agreement are property ofthe City and are confidential, except as,
specifically authorized in this Agreement or as may be required by law.
Consultant must not allow the Deliverables to be made available to any
‘ther individual or organization without the prior written consent of the
City. Further, all documents and other information provided to Consultant
by the City are confidential and must not be made available to any other
individual or organization without the prior written consent of the City.
‘Consultant must implement such measures as may be necessary to ensure
that its staff and its Subcontractors are bound by the confidentiality
provisions in this Agreement.

Consultant must not issue any publicity news releases or grant press
interviews, and except as may be required by law during or after the
performance of this Agreement, disseminate any information regarding its
Services or the project to which the Services pertain without the pror
‘written consent of the Commissioner.

‘If Consultant is presented with a request for documents by any
‘administrative agency or with a subpoena duces tecum regarding any
records, data or documents which may be in Consultant's possession by
reason of this Agreement, Consultant must immediately give notice to the
‘Commissioner and the Corporation Counsel forthe City with the
‘understanding that the City will have the opportunity to contest such
process by any means available to it before the records, data or documents
are submitted to a court or other third party. Consultant, however, is not
obligated to withhold the delivery beyond the time ordered by the court or
‘administrative agency, unless the subpoena or request is quashed or the
time to produce is otherwise extended.

Assignments and Subcontracts

Consultant must not assign, delegate or otherwise transfer all or any part ofits
rights or obligations under this Agreement or any part of it, unless otherwise
provided for in this Agreement or without the express written consent of the Chief
Procurement Officer and the Department. The absence of such a provision or

Reed January 14,2004 (TA) n
‘written consent voids the attempted assignment, delegation or transfer and is of no
effect as to the Services or this Agreement. No approvals given by the Chief
Procurement Officer operate to relieve Consultant of any of its obligations or
liabilities under this Agreement

{All subcontracts and all approvals of Subcontractors are, regardless of their form,
considered conditioned upon performance by the Subcontractor in accordance
With the terms and conditions ofthis Agreement. Ifany Subcontractor fails to
observe or perform the terms and conditions ofthis Agreement 1 the satisfaction
of the Department, the City has the absolute right upon written notification to
{immediately rescind approval and to require the performance ofthis Agreement
by Consultant personally or through any other City-approved Subcontractor. Any
approval for the use of Subcontractors in the performance of the Services under
this Agreement under no circumstances operates to relieve Consultant of any of its
obligations or liabilities under this Agreement.

Consultant, upon entering into any agreement with a Subcontractor, must furnish
‘upon request of the Chief Procurement Officer or the Department a copy of its
‘agreement. All subcontracts must contain provisions that require the Services be
performed in strict accordance with the requirements of this Agreement, provide
that the Subcontractors are subject to all the terms of this Agreement and are
subject to the approval of the Department and the Chief Procurement Officer. If
the agreements do not prejudice any of the City's rights under this Agreement,
such agreements may contain different provisions than are provided in this
Agreement with respect to extensions of schedule, time of completion, payments,
‘guarantees and matters not affecting the quality of the Services.

Consultant must not transferor assign any funds or claims due or to become due
under this Agreement without the prior written approval of the Chief Procurement
Officer. The attempted transfer or assignment of any funds, either in whole or in
part, or any interest in them, which are due or to become due to Consultant under
this Agreement, without such prior written approval, has no effect upon the City.

Under the Municipal Code of Chicago, ch. 2-92, Section 2-92-245, the Chief
Procurement Officer may make direct payments to Subcontractors for Services
performed under this Agreement. Any such payment has the same effect as if the
City had paid Consultant that amount directly. Such payment by the City to
Consultant's Subcontractor under no circumstances operates to relieve Consultant
of any of its obligations or liabilities under this Agreement. This section is solely
for the benefit of the City and does not grant any thrd party beneficiary rights.

Rewsed January 14, 2004 (TA) 2
ARTICLE 3.

3a

32

33

ARTICLE 4,

4a

‘TIME LIMITS FOR PERFORMANCE
‘Schedule for Performance

‘This Agreement takes effect as of the date of its execution by the City ("Effective
Date")which is set forth in the preamble and will continue for 36 months, or util
the Agreement is terminated in accordance with its terms, whichever occurs first.
‘The Agreement may be extended for up to.2 additional one-year periods in
secordance with Section 33.

‘Timeliness of Performance

(@) Consultant must perform the Services as expeditiously as is consistent
‘Wit professional skill and care and must provide te Services and
Deliverables within the schedule required under Exhibit 1 of this
‘Agreement.

(©) Neither Consultant nor Consultant's agents, employees or Subcontractors
are entitled to any damages from the City, nor is any party entitled to be
reimbursed by the City, for damages, charges or other losses or expenses
incurred by Consultant by reason of delays or hindrances in the
performance of the Services, whether or not caused by the City.

Agreement Extension Option

‘The Chief Procurement Officer may at any time before this Agreement expires
elect to extend this Agreement for up to 2 additional one-year periods under the
same terms and conditions as this onginal Agreement, except as provided
otherwise inthis Agreement, by notice in writing to Consultant.

COMPENSATION
Basis of Payment

‘The City will compensate Consultant according to the Schedule of Compensation
contained in Exhibit? of this Agreement forthe successful completion ofthe
Services.

‘Notwithstanding anything in the Schedule of Compensation set forth in Exhibit

‘o the contrary, Consultant's compensation under this Agreement is limited to
those amounts allowable and allocable to this Agreement under 48 C.F.R. Part 31,

Rensed January I, 2004 (TA) 13
42

43

Subpart 31.6 (the Federal Acquistion Regulation), OMB Circular A-87
incorporated by reference into 48 C FR. Part 31, Subpart 31.6), and the cost
principles set forth in 48 C.F.R. Part 31, Subpart 31.2, but only tothe extent that
the cost principles in Subpart 31.2 do not conflict with the terms of 48 C.E.R. Part
31, Subpart 31.6 and OMB Circular A-87. To the extent that an audit reveals that
Consultant has received payment in excess of such amounts, the City may offset
such excess payments against any future payments due to Consultant and, if no
future payments are due or if furure payments ae less than such excess,
Consultant must promptly refund the amount of the excess payments tothe City.

‘Method of Payment

Consultant must submit monthly invoices to the City for labor and other direct
and indirect costs as billed, as outlined in the Schedule of Compensation in
Exhibit2. The invoices must be signed, dated, reference the City contract number
‘and name, and must be in such other detail as the City requests. If Consultant has
‘more than one agreement with the City, Consultant must prepare and submit
separate invoices for each agreement. Consultant must not submit invoices for
less than $500 unless a particular invoice is for last payment related to closeout of
the Services.

‘The City will process payment within 60 days after receipt of invoices and all
‘supporting documentation necessary for the City to verify the Services provided
under this Agreement.

Criteria for Payment

‘The reasonableness, allocabilty, and allowability of any costs and expenses
charged by Consultant under this Agreement will be determined by the Chief
Procurement Officer and the Commissioner in their sole discretion.

In the event of a dispute between Consultant and the City as to whether any
particular charge wall be paid, or as to Whether the amount of such charge is
reasonable, allocable to the Services, or allowable, Consultant must, and the
Department may, jointly or individually, refer such dispute to the Chief
Procurement Officer for resolution in accordance with the Disputes section of this
Agreement. The City will not withhold payment for undisputed sums on such
invotce while a dispute is being resolved. All invoice disputes will be handled as,
described in Section B.3 of Exhibit 2

Rensed January 18,2004 (TA) 4
44° Funding

‘The source of funds for payments under this Agreement is the Fund Number set
forth in Exhibit2. Payments under this Agreement will not be made or due to
Consultant in excess ofthe dollar amount set forth in Exhibit 2 without a written
‘amendment in accordance with Section 9.3.

45 Non-Appropriation

1fno funds or insufficient funds are appropriated and budgeted n any fscal period
‘of the City for payments to be made under this Agreement, then the City will
notify Consultant in writin of that occurrence, and this Agreement will terminate
‘on the earlier of the last day of the fiscal period for which sufficient appropriation
‘was made or whenever the funds appropriated for payment under this Agreement
are exhausted. Payments for Services completed to the date of notification will be
‘made to Consultant except that no payments will be made or due to Consultant
‘under this Agreement beyond those amounts appropriated and budgeted by the
City to fund payments under this Agreement.

ARTICLE 5, DISPUTES.

[Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, Consultant must and the Commissioner may
‘bring any dispute conceming a question of fat arising under this Agreement which is not
Aisposed of to the Chief Procurement Officer for decision based upon writen submissions ofthe
parties. (A copy of the "Regulations ofthe Department of Procurement Services for Resolution +
‘of Disputes between Contractors and the City of Chicago" is available in City Hall, 121 N.
LaSalle Street, Room 301, Bid and Bond Room) The Chief Procurement Officer will reduce his
decision to writing and mail or otherwise furnish a copy of it to Consultant. The decision of the
Chief Procurement Officer is final and binding. If Consultant does not agree with the decision of
the Chief Procurement Officer, the sole and exclusive remedy is judicial review by a common
law writ of certiorari.

ARTICLE 6, COMPLIANCE WITH ALL LAWS.
6.1 Compliance with All Laws Generally
(@) Consultant must observe and comply with all applicable federal, state,
county and municipal laws, statutes, ordinances and executive orders, in

‘effect now or later and whether or not they appear in this Agreement,
including those set forth in this Article 6, and Consultant must pay all

Rewsed January 14,2004 (TA) 1s
a Ata ng gg Sas

()

taxes and obtain all licenses, certificates and other authorizations required
by them, Consultant must require all Subcontractors to do so, aso.
‘Consultant must have fled, within 1 year prior to the Effective Date, an
executed Economic Disclosure Statement and Affidavit ("Disclosure
Affidavit") with the Chief Procurement Officer and must execute @ No
Changes Affidavit and a Disclosure of Retained Parties in the forms
‘incorporated into this Agreement as Exhibit 4. Notwithstanding
acceptance by the City of the Disclosure Affidavit, failure of the
Disclosure Affidavit to include all uformation required under the
‘Municipal Code renders this Agreement voidable at the option of the City.

‘Notwithstanding anything inthis Agreement tothe contrary, references to
«statute or law are considered to be a reference to (j) the statute or law as
it may be amended from time to time; (ji) all regulations and rules
pertaining to or promulgated pursuant to the statute or law; and (ii) ll
future statutes, laws, regulations, rules and executive orders pertaining to
‘the same or similar subject matter.

62 Nondiserimination

@

Consultant

|In performing its Services under this Agreement, Consultant must comply
with applicable laws prohibiting discrimination against individuals and
groups. .

(@ Federal Requirements

In performing its Services under this Agreement, Consultant must
not engage in unlawful employment practices, such as (1) filing or
refusing to hire or discharging any individual, or otherwise
discriminating against any individual with respect to compensation
or the terms, conditions, or pavileges ofthe individual's
employment, because ofthe individual's race, color, religion, sex,
age, handicapidisability or national ongin, oF 2) limiting,
segregating or classifying Consultant's employees or applicants for
‘employment in any way that would deprive oF tend to deprive any
individual of employment opportunites or otherwise adversely
affect the individual's status as an employee, because of the
individual's race, color religion, sex, age, handicap/disabilty or
national ongin.

Rensed January 14,2004 (TA) 16
@

ity

Revised Jamary 14, 2006 (TA)

Consultant must comply with, and the procedures Consultant
ulizes and the Services Consultant provides under this Agreement
‘ust comply with, the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. sec.
20006 er seg. (1981), as amended and the Civil Rights Act of 1991,
PL, 102-166, Attention is called to: Exec. Order No. 11246, 30
Fed. Reg. 12,319 (1965), reprinted in 42 U.S.C. 2000e note, a8
amended by Exee. Order No. 11375, 32 Fed. Reg. 14,303 (1967)
and by Exec Order No. 12086, 43 Fed. Reg. 46,501 (1978); Age
Discrimination Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6101-6106 (1981); Age
Discrimination in Employment Act, 29 U.S.C. §§621-34;
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 U.S.C. §§ 793-794 (1981);
‘Americans with Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C. §12101 et seq. 41
CER. Part 60 et seq. (1990); Drug Abuse Office and Treatment
‘Act of 1972, P.L. 92-255, as amended; and Comprehensive
Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism Prevention Act of 1970, P-L. 91-
616, as amended; and al other applicable federal statues,
regulations and other laws.

State Requirements

Consultant must comply with, and the procedures Consultant
utilizes and the Services Consultant provides under this Agreement
‘must comply with, the Iliinois Human Rights Act, 775 ILCS 5/1-
101 et seq (1990), as amended and any rues and regulations
promulgated in accordance with it, including the Equal
Employment Opportunity Clause, 44 Il. Admin. Code § 750
Appendix A. Furthermore, Consultant must comply with the
Public Works Employment Diserimination Act, 775 LCS 10/0.01
t seq (1990), as amended; and all other applicable state statutes,
regulations and other laws

City Requirements

Consultant must comply with, and the procedures Consultant
Utilizes and the Services Consultant provides under this Agreement
‘must comply with, the Chicago Human Rights Ordinance, ch 2-
160, Section 2-160-010 et seq of the Municipal Code of Chicago
(1990), as amended, and all other applicable City ordinances and
rules Further, Consultant must furnish and must cause each of its
Subcontractor(s) to furnish such reports and information as
requested by the Chicago Commission on Human Relations.
63

64

(b) Subcontractors

Consultant must incorporate this Section 6.2 by reference in all agreements
‘entered into with Subcontractors and labor organizations that furnish
skilled, unskilled and craft union skilled labor, or any other services in
‘connection with this Agreement.

‘Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and Other Laws
Concerning Accessibility

‘Consultant covenants that all designs, plans and drawings produced or utilized
under this Agreement will address and comply with all federal, state and local
laws and regulations regarding accessibility standards for persons with disabi
‘or environmentally limited persons including the following. the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C. § 12101 er seq and the Americans with
Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines for Buildings and Facilites
(ADAG?) the Architectural Barriers Act, Pub, L. 90-480 (1968), and the
Uniform Federal Accessiblity Standards ("UFAS"); and the Illinois
Environmental Barriers Act, 410 ILCS 25/1 ef seq , and all regulations
promulgated thereunder , see Illinois Administrative Code, Title 71, Chapter 1,
Section 400.110. If the above standards are inconsistent, Consultant must assure
‘that ts designs, plans, and drawings comply with the standard providing the
‘greatest accessibility. Also, Consultant must, prior to construction, review the
plans and specifications to insure compliance with these standards. [f Consultant
fails to comply with the foregoing standards, the City may, without limiting any of
its remedies st forth in Section 8.2 or otherwise available at law, in equity or by
statute, require Consultant to perform again, at no expense, all Services required
to be reperformed as a direct or indirect result of such failure.

Inspector General

Itis the duty of any bidder, proposer or Consultant, all Subcontractors, every
applicant for certification of eligibility for a City contractor program, and all
officers, directors, agents, partners and employees of any bidder, proposer,
‘Consultant, Subcontractor or such applicant to cooperate with the Inspector
General n any investigation or hearing undertaken pursuant to Chapter 2-56 of the
Municipal Code of Chicago. Consultant understands and will abide by all
provisions of Chapter 2-56 of the Municipal Code of Chicago. All subcontracts
‘must inform Subcontractors of the provision and require understanding and
‘compliance with it

ResedJaruary 14, 2004 (TA) 18
ee ans apy So

6s

66

@

Business Relationships with Elected Officials

Pursuant to Section 2-156-030(b) of the Municipal Code ofthe City of Chicago it
is illegal for any elected official of the City, or any person acting atthe direction
of such offical, to contact, ether orally or in writing, any other Cty oficial or
‘employee with respect to any mater involving any person with whom the elected
official asa business relationship, or to participate in any discussion in any City
‘Council committee hearing or in any City Council meeting or to vote on any
‘attr involving the person with whom an elected offical has a business
relationship. Violation of Section 2-156-030(b) by any elected official with
respect to this Agreement is grounds for termination of this Agreement. The term
‘business relationship is defined asst fort in Section 2-156-080 ofthe Municipal
Code of Chicago.

Section 2-156-080 defines a "business relationship" as any contractual or other
private business dealing ofan offical or his or her spouse, or of any entity in
which an official or his or her spouse has financial interest, wth a person or
entity which entitles an offical to compensation or payment in the amount of
$2,500 or more ina calendar year, provided, however, a financial interest shall not
include: () any ownership through purchase at fair market value or inheritance of
Jes than one percent ofthe share of a corporation, or any corporate subsidiary,
‘rent or afiliate thereof, regardless of the value of or dividends on such shares, if
such shares are registered on a secunties exchange pursuant tothe Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; (i) the authorized compensation paid to an
official or employee for hs office or employment, (i) any economic benefit
provided equally to all residents ofthe City; (v) time or demand deposit in a
financial institution, or (¥) an endowment or insurance policy or annuity contract,
purchased from an insurance company. AA "contractual or other private
Dsiness dealing” shall not include any employment relationship of an official's
spouse with an entity when such spouse has no discretion concerning or input
relatng tothe relationship between that entity and the City.

(Chicago "Living Wage" Ordinance

Section 2-92-610 of the Municipal Code of Chicago provides for a living wage for
certain categories of workers employed in the performance of City contracts,
specifically non-City employed security guards, parking attendants, day laborers,
‘home and health care workers, cashiers, elevator operators, custodial workers and
clerical workers ("Covered Employees") Accordingly, pursuant to Section
292-610 and regulations promulgated under it

(® If Consultant has 25 or more full-time employees, and

‘Remsed Jamar 14,2004 (TA) 19
rte And Dp ap Soe

O)

©

@

©

i) __Ifatany time during the performance ofthis Agreement,
Consultant and/or any Subcontractor or any other entity that provides any portion
of the Services (collectively "Performing Parties") uses 25 or more fulltime
‘security guards, or any number of other full-time Covered Employees, then

ii) __ Consultant must pay its Covered Employees, and must assure that
all other Performing Parties pay their Covered Employees, not less than the
‘minimum hourly rate as determined in accordance with this provision (the "Base
Wage’) forall Services performed under this Agreement.

Consultant's obligation to pay, and to assure payment of, the Base Wage will
‘begin at any time during the term of this Agreement when the conditions set forth
in @() and (@)ii) above are met, and will continue until the end of the term of
this Agreement.

As of July 1, 2003, the Base Wage became $9 20, and each July 1 thereafter, the
‘Base Wage will be adjusted, using the most recent federal poverty guidelines for a
family of four as published annually by the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services, to constitute the following: the poverty guidelines fora family of four
divided by 2000 hours or the current base wage, whichever is higher. At all times
during the term of this Agreement, Consultant and all other Performing Parties
‘must pay the Base Wage (as adjusted in accordance with the above). Ifthe
payment of prevailing wages is required for Services done under this Agreement,
and the prevailing wages for Covered Employees are higher than the Base Wage,
thea Consultant and all other Performing Parties must pay the prevailing wage
rates,

‘Consultant must include provisions in all subcontracts requiring its
‘Subcontractors to pay the Base Wage to Covered Employees. Consultant agrees
to provide the City with documentation acceptable to the Chief Procurement
Officer demonstrating that all Covered Employees, whether employed by
Consultant or by a Subcontractor, have been paid the Base Wage, upon the City’s
request for such documentation. ‘The City may independently audit Consultant
and/or Subcontractors to verify compliance with this section. Failure to comply
with the requirements of this section will be an event of default under this
‘Agreement, and further, failure to comply may result in ineligibility for any award
ofa City contract or subcontract for up to 3 years

Not-for-Profit Corporations: If Consultant isa corporation having federal tax-
exempt status under Section 501(c)3) of the Intemal Revenue Code and is
recognized under Illinois not-for-profit law, then the provisions of subsections (a)
through () above do not apply.

Rensed January 14, 2004 (TA) 20
6.7 Deemed Inclusion

Provisions required by law, ordinances, rules, regulations, or executive orders to
be inserted in this Agreement are deemed inserted in this Agreement whether or
‘not they appear in this Agreement or, upon application by either party, this
‘Agreement will be amended to make the insertion; however, in no event will the
‘flue to insert the provisions before or after this Agreement is signed prevent its
‘enforcement.

ARTICLE 7. SPECIAL CONDITIONS.

7.1 Warranties and Representations

In connection with signing and carrying out this Agreement, Consultant:

@

()

©

@

©

‘warrants that Consultant is appropriately licensed under Illinois law to
perform the Services required under this Agreement and will perform no
Services for which a professional license is required by law and for which
‘Consultant 1s not appropriately licensed;

‘warrants itis financially solvent; it and each of its employees, agents and
‘Subcontractors are competent to perform the Services required under this
‘Agreement; and Consultant is legally authorized to execute and perform or
‘cause to be performed this Agreement under the terms and conditions
stated in this Agreement;

‘warrants that it will not knowingly use the services of any ineligible
‘consultant or Subcontractor for any purpose in the performance of its
Services under this Agreement;

‘warrants that Consultant is not in default atthe tme this Agreement is
igned, and has not been deemed by the Chief Procurement Officer to
have, within $ years immediately preceding the date of thus Agreement,
been found tobe in default on any contract awarded by the City of
‘Chicago, and has obtained warranties from its Subcontractors substantially
similar in form and substance,

represents that it has carefully examined and analyzed the provisions and
requirements of this Agreement; it understands the nature of the Services
required; from its own analysis it has satisfied itself as to the nature ofall,
things needed for the performance of this Agreement; this Agreement is

‘Rewsed Jaruary 14,2004 (TA) a1
{feasible of performance in accordance with all of its provisions and
requirements, and Consultant warrants it can and will perform, or cause to
‘be performed, the Services in strict accordance withthe provisions and
requirements of this Agreement,

(© represents that Consultant and, to the best ofits knowledge, its
‘Subcontractors are not in violation of the provisions of Section 2-92-320
‘of Chapter 2-92 of the Municipal Code of Chicago, and in connection with
it, and additionally in connection with the Ilinois Criminal Code, 720
ILCS 5/33E as amended, and the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/11-
421-1; and

(@) acknowledges that any certification, affidavit or acknowledgment made
‘under oath in connection with this Agreement is made under penalty of
‘perjury and, if false, is also cause for termination under Sections 8.1 and
8.3 of this Agreement.

72 Ethics

(@) _Inaddition to the foregoing warranties and representations, Consultant
‘warrants: :

(no officer, agent or employee of the City is employed by
Consultant or has a financial interest directly or indirectly inthis
Agreement or the compensation to be paid under this Agreement
‘except as may be permitted in writing by the Board of Ethics
established under the Municipal Code of Chicago (Chapter 2-156).

Gi) no payment, gratuity or offer of employment will be made in
connection with this Agreement by or on bebalf of any
Subcontractors tothe prime Consultant or higher tier
Subcontractors or anyone associated with them, as an inducement
for the award of a subcontract or order.

(b) Consultant further acknowledges that any Agreement entered into,

negotiated or performed in violation of any ofthe provisions of Chapter 2-
156 is voidable as tothe City.

Rensed January 14, 2004 (TA) 2
73

14

1s

Joint and Several Liability

If Consultant, ofits successors or assigns, if any, is comprised of more than one
individual or other legal entity (or a combination of them), then under this
Agreement, each and without limitation every obligation or undertaking inthis
Agreement to be fulfilled or performed by Consultant is the joint and several
obligation or undertaking of each such individual or other legal entity

Business Documents

At the request of the City, Consultant must provide copi

of its latest articles of

incorporation, by-laws and resolutions, or partnership or joint venture agreement,
as applicable.

Conflicts of Interest

@

()

o

[No member of the governing body of the City or other unit of government
‘and no other officer, employee or agent of the City or other unit of
‘government who exercises any functions or responsibilities in connection
with the Services to which this Agreement pertains is permitted to have
any personal interest, direct or indirect, inthis Agreement. No member of
or delegate to the Congress ofthe United States or the Illinois General
‘Assembly and no alderman ofthe City or City employee is allowed to be
admitted to any share or part of this Agreement or to any financial benefit
to arise from it.

Consultant covenants that it, and to the best of its knowledge, it
Subcontractors if any (collectively, "Consulting Parties"), presently have
no direct or indirect interest and will not acquire any interest, direct or
indirect, in any project or contract that would conflict in any manner or
degree with the performance of its Services under this Agreement.

‘Upon the request ofthe City, Consultant must disclose to the City its past
client list and the names of any clients with whom it has an ongoing,
relationship. Consultant is not permitted to perform any Services for the
City on applications or other documents submitted tothe City by any of |
Consultant's pastor present clients. If Consultant becomes aware of a
conflict, it must immediately stop work on the assignment causing the
conflict and notify the City

RevsedJamary 4, 2004 (TA) 2B
16

ARTICLE 8.

al

@

©

‘Without limiting the foregoing, if the Consulting Parties assist the City in
determining the advisability or feasibulty ofa project or in recommending,
researching, preparing, drafting or issuing a request for proposals or bid
specifications for a project, the Consulting Parties must not participate,
directly or indirectly, asa prime, subcontractor or joint venturer in that
projector in the preparation of a proposal or bid for that project during the
term of this Agreement or afterwards. The Consulting Parties may,
however, assist the City in reviewing the proposals or bids for the project
iffnone of the Consulting Parties have a relationship with the persons or
entities that submitted the proposals or bids for that project.

Consultant further covenants that, in the performance of this Agreement,
no person having any conflicting interest will be assigned to perform any
Services or have access to any confidential information, as defined in
Section 2.10 of this Agreement Ifthe City, by the Commissioner in his
reasonable judgment, determines that any of Consultant's Services for
‘others conflict with the Services Consultant is to render for the City under
this Agreement, Consultant must terminate such other services
‘immediately upon request of the City.

Non-Liability of Public Officials

‘Consultant and any assignee or Subcontractor of Consultant must not charge any
official, employee or agent of the City personally with any liability or expenses of
‘defense or hold any official, employee or agent of the City personally liable to
them under any term or provision of this Agreement or because of the City's
‘execution, attempted execution or any breach of this Agreement.

EVENTS OF DEFAULT, REMEDIES, TERMINATION, SUSPENSION
AND RIGHT TO OFFSET

Events of Default Defined

The following constitute events of default:

@

(O)

‘Any matenal misrepresentation, whether negligent or willful and whether
in the inducement or in the performance, made by Consultant tothe City.

Consultant's materal faure to perform any ofits obligations under this
Agreement including the following

‘emsed January 14,2006 (TA) 24
82

©

@

©
)

(© Failure due to a eason or circumstances within Consultant's
reasonable control to perform the Services with sufficient
personnel and equipment or with sufficient material to ensure the
performance of the Services;

Gi) Failure to perform the Services in a manner reasonably satisfactory
to the Commissioner or the Chief Procurement Officer or inability
to perform the Services satisfactorily as a result of insolvency,
filing for bankruptcy or assignment for the benefit of creditors;

(Gi) Failure to promptly re-perform within a reasonable time Services
that were rejected as erroneous or unsatisfactory;

iv) Discontinuance of the Services for reasons within Consultants
reasonable control; and

(¥) Failure to comply with any other material term of this Agreement,
including the provisions conceming insurance and
‘ondiscriminaton.

‘Any change in ownership or control of Consultant without the prior
‘written approval of the Chief Procurement Officer, which approval the
Chief Procurement Officer will not unreasonably withhold,

Consultant's default under any other agreement it may presently have or
‘may enter into with the City during the life ofthis Agreement. Consultant
acknowledges and agrees that in the event ofa default under this
‘Agreement the City may also declare a default under any such other
agreements

Faslure to comply with Section 6.1 inthe performance ofthe Agreement.

Consultant's repeated or continued violations of City ordinances unrelated
to performance under the Agreement that in the opinion of the Chief
Procurement Officer indicate a willful or reckless disregard for City laws
‘and regulations.

Remedies

‘The occurrence of any event of default permits the City, at the City’s sole option,
to declare Consultant in default. The Chief Procurement Officer may in his sole
discretion give Consultant an opportunity to cure the default within a certain

Rensed January 14,2004 (TA) 2s
eel gy Sa

period of time, which period of time must not exceed 30 days, unless extended by
‘the Chief Procurement Officer. Whether to declare Consultant in default is within
the sole discretion ofthe Chief Procurement Officer and neither that decision nor
the factual basis for itis subject to review or challenge under the Disputes
provision of this Agreement.

‘The Chief Procurement Officer will give Consultant written notice of the default,
cither inthe form of a cure notice ("Cure Notice"), or, ifno opportunity to cure
‘willbe granted, a default notice ("Default Notice"). ifthe Chief Procurement
Officer gives a Default Notice, he wll also indicate any present intent he may
have to terminate this Agreement, andthe decision to terminate (but not the
‘decision not to terminate) is final and effective upon giving the notice. The Chief
Procurement Officer may give a Default Notice if Consultant fails to effect a cure
within the cure period given in a Cure Notice. When a Default Notice with intent
‘o terminate is given as provided in this Section 8.2 and Article 10, Consultant
‘must discontinue any Services, unless otherwise directed inthe notice, and deliver
all materials accumulated in the performance of this Agreement, whether
‘completed o inthe process, to the City. After giving a Default Notice, the City
may invoke any or all ofthe following remedies, individually or collectively:

(@) The right to take over and complete the Services, or any part of them, at
Consultant's expense and as agent for Consultant, either directly or
through others, and bill Consultant for the cost of the Services, and
Consultant must pay the difference between the total amount of this bill
and the amount the City would have paid Consultant under the terms and
conditions of this Agreement for the Services that were assumed by the
City as agent for Consultant under this Section 8.2;

(©) The right to terminate this Agreement as to any or all of the Services yet to
‘be performed effective ata time specified by the City;

(©) Theright of specific performance, an injunction or anyother appropriate
equitable remedy,

(@ The right to money damages,

(©) Thenght to withhold all or any part of Consultant's compensation under
this Agreement;

()Theright to deem Consultant non-responsible in future contracts to be
awarded by the City.

‘Rewsed January 14,2004 (TA) 26
ee Anti na mn et

Ii the Chief Procurement Officer considers itt be inthe City's best interest, he
‘ay elect not declare default orto terminate this Agreement. The parties
acknowledge that this provision is solely forthe benefit ofthe City and that ifthe
City permits Consultant to continue to provide the Services despite one or more
events of default, Consultant isin no way relieved of any ofits responsibilities,
duties or obligations under this Agreement, nor does the City waive or relinquish
any ofits rights.

‘The remedies under the terms ofthis Agreement are not intended tobe exclusive
of anyother remedies provided, but each and every such remedy is cumulative and
is in addition to any other remedies, existing now or ltr, a aw, in equity or by
statute, No delay or omission to exercise any right or power accruing upon any
event of default impairs any such right or power, nor is ita waiver of any event of
default nor acquiescence init, and every such right and power may be exercised
from time to time and as often asthe City considers expedient.

83° Early Termination

In addition to termination under Sections 8.1 and 8.2 of this Agreement, the City
may terminate this Agreement, or all or any portion of the Services to be
performed under it, at any time by a notice in writing from the City to Consultant
‘The City wil give notice to Consultant in accordance with the provisions of |
Arucle 10. The effective date of termination will be the date the notice is received
bby Consultant or the date stated in the notice, whichever is later. If the City elects
‘to terminate this Agreement in full all Services to be provided under it must cease
‘and all materials that may have been accumulated in performing this Agreement,
‘whether completed or in the process, must be delivered to the City effective 10
days after the date the notice is considered received as provided under Article 10
of this Agreement (if no date is given) or upon the effective date stated in the
notice.

After the notice is received, Consultant must restrict its activities, and those of its
Subcontractors, to winding down any reports, analyses, or other activities
previously begun. No costs incurred after the effective date of the termination are
allowed. Payment for any Services actually and satisfactorily performed before
the effective date of the termination ison the same basis as set forth in Article 4,
‘but if any compensation is described or provided for on the basis of a period
longer than 10 days, then the compensation must be prorated accordingly. No
‘amount of compensation, however, 1s permitted for anticipated profits on
‘unperformed Services The City and Consultant must attempt to agree on the
‘amount of compensation to be paid to Consultant, but if not agreed on, the dispute
‘must be settled in accordance with Article S ofthis Agreement. The payment so

Rewsed January 14,2004 (TA) ”
an cn a gg St

84

‘made to Consultant isin fall settlement forall Services satisfactorily performed
under this Agreement.

Consultant must include in its contracts with Subcontractors an carly termination
provision in form and substance equivalent to this early termination provision to
‘prevent claims against the City arising from termination of subcontracts after the
early termination. Consultant will not be entitled to make any early termination
claims against the City resulting from any Subcontractor’s claims against
‘Consultant or the City tothe extent inconsistent with this provision

If the City’s election to terminate this Agreement for default under Sections 8.1
‘and 8.2 is determined in a court of competent jurisdiction to have been wrongful,
‘then in that ease the termination is to be considered to be an early termination
under this Section 8.3.

Suspension

‘The City may at any time request that Consultant suspend its Services, or any part
of them, by giving 15 days prior written notice to Consultant or upon informal
oral, or even no notice, inthe event of emergency. No costs incurred after the
cffective date of such suspension are allowed. Consultant must promptly resume
its performance of the Services under the same terms and conditions as stated in
this Agreement upon written notice by the Chief Procurement Officer and such
‘equitable extension of time as may be mutually agreed upon by the Chief
Procurement Officer and Consultant when necessary for continuation o
‘completion of Services. Any additional costs or expenses actually incurred by
Consultant as a result of recommencing the Services must be treated in
accordance with the compensation provisions under Exhibit 2 of this Agreement.

No suspension of this Agreement is permitted in the aggregate to exceed a period
of 45 days within any one year ofthis Agreement. If the total number of days of
suspension exceeds 45 days, Consultant by written notice to the City may treat the
suspension as an early termination of this Agreement under Section 8.3.
Right to Offset

(@) _ Inconnection with performance under this Agreement:

‘The City may offset any excess costs incurred:

Reed January 14,2004 (TA) 28
td een ng apm et

@

(3)

Gi)

if the City terminates this Agreement for default or any other
reason resulting from Consultant’s performance or non-performance;

if the City exercises any of its remedies under Section 8.2 of this
‘Agreement; or

ifthe City has any credits due or has made any overpayments under
this Agreement.

‘The City may offset these excess costs by use of any payment due for
Services completed before the City terminated this Agreement or before
the City exercised any remedies. Ifthe amount offset is insufficient to
‘cover those excess costs, Consultant is liable for and must promptly remit
1 the City the balance upon written demand for it. This right to offset is
in addition to and not a limitation of any other remedies availabe to the

City.

(b) _Inconnection with Section 2-92-380 of the Municipal Code of Chicago:

)

i

‘Revised January 14, 2004 (TA)

In accordance with Section 2-92-380 of the Municipal Code of
Chicago and in addition to any other rights and remedies (including
any of set-off) available to the City under this Agreement or
Permitted at law or in equity, the City is entitled to set off a portion
of the price or compensation due under this Agreement in an
‘amount equal tothe amount ofthe fines and penalties for each
‘outstanding parking violation complaint and/or the amount of any
‘debt owed by Consultant to the City. For purposes of this Section
8.5 “outstanding parking violation complaint" means a parking
Lucket, notice of parking violation or parking violation complaint
‘on which no payment has been made or appearance filed in the
Circuit Court of Cook County within the time specified on the
complaint. "Debt" means a specified sum of money awed to the
City for which the period granted for payment has expired.

‘Notwithstanding the provisions of the above subsection, no such
<debt(s) or outstanding parking violation complaint(s) wil be offset
from the price or compensation due under this Agreement if one or
‘more of the following conditions are met:

‘A. Consultant has entered into an agreement with the
Department of Revenue, or other appropriate City
department, for the payment of all outstanding parking

29
Pea etc nae ane St

©

violation complaints and/or debts owed to the City and
Consultant isin compliance with the agreement; or

B. Consultant is contesting liability for or the amount of the
debt in a pending administrative or judicial proceeding; or

‘Consultant has filed a petition in bankruptcy and the debts
‘owed the City are dischargeable in bankruptey.

In connection with any liquidated or unliquidated claims against
Consultant:

‘Without breaching this Agreement, the City may set off a portion of the
price or compensation due under this Agreement in an amount equal to the
‘amount of any liquidated or unliquidated claims that the City has against
Consultant unrelated to this Agreement. When the City's claims against
Consultant are finally adjudicated in a court of competent jurisdiction or
‘otherwise resolved, the City will reimburse Consultant to the extent of the
‘amount the City has offset against this Agreement inconsistently with such
determination or resolution

ARTICLE 9. GENERAL CONDITIONS

9.1 Entire Agreement

@

(O)

General

‘This Agreement, and the exhibits, which are attached to it and
incorporated in it, constitute the entire agreement between the parties and
‘no other terms, conditions, warranties, inducements, considerations,
‘promises or interpretations are implied or impressed upon this Agreement
that are not addressed in this Agreement.

No Collateral Agreements

Consultant acknowledges that, except only for those representations,
statements or promises contained inthis Agreement and any exhibits
‘attached to it and incorporated by reference in it, no representation,
‘statement or promise, oral or in writing, of any kind whatsoever, by the
City, its officials, agents or employees, has induced Consultant to enter
into this Agreement or has been relied upon by Consultant, including any

Revised January 14, 2004 (TA) 30
And ene gna

‘with reference to: (i) the meaning, corectness, suitability or completeness
of any provisions or requirements of this Agreement; (i) the nature ofthe
‘Services to be performed; (ii the nature, quantity, quality or volume of
‘any materials, equipment, labor and other facilities needed for the
performance ofthis Agreement; (iv) the general conditions which may in
any way affect this Agreement or its performance; (v) the compensation.
provisions ofthis Agreement; or (vi) any other matters, whether similar to
‘or different from those referred to in () through (vi) immediately above,
affecting or having any connection with this Agreement, its negotiation,
‘any discussions of its performance or those employed or connected or
‘concerned with it

© No Omissions

Consultant acknowledges that Consultant was given ample opportunity
and time and was requested by the City to review thoroughly all
documents forming this Agreement before signing this Agreement in order
that it might request inclusion in this Agreement of any statement,
representation, promise or provision that it desired or on that it wished to
place reliance Consultant did so review those documents, and either
every such statement, representation, promise or provision has been
included in this Agreement or else, if omitted, Consultant relinquishes the
benefit of any such omitted statement, representation, promise or provision
and is willing to perform this Agreement in its entirety without claiming
reliance on it or making any other claim on account of its omission.

92 Counterparts

‘This Agreement is comprised of several identical counterparts, each to be fully
signed by the parties and each to be considered an original having identical legal
effect.

93 Amendments

Except as provided in Section 3.3 of ths Agreement, no changes, amendments,
‘modifications or discharge ofthis Agreement, or any part of i ae valid unless in
‘writing and signed by the authorized agent of Consultant and by the Mayor,
‘Comptroller, and Chief Procurement Officer of the City or thea respective
successors and assigns. The City incur no liability for Additional Services
‘without a written amendment to this Agreement under this Section 9.3.

Rewsed January 14,2004 (TA) a
‘rte Amc np Semen St

94

98

‘Whenever in this Agreement Consultant is required to obtain prior written
approval, the effect of any approval that may be granted pursuant to Consultant's
request is prospective only from the later of the date approval was requested or the
date on which the action for which the approval was sought is to begin. In no
‘event is approval permitted to apply retroactively to a date before the approval
‘was requested.

Governing Law and Jurisdiction

‘This Agreement is governed as to performance and interpretation in accordance
with the laws ofthe State of Ilinois.

‘Consultant irrevocably submits itself tothe original jurisdiction of those courts
located within the County of Cook, State of Illinois, with regard to any
‘controversy arising out of, relating to, or in any way concerning the execution or
performance of this Agreement. Service of process on Consultant may be made,
atthe option of the City, either by registered or certified mal addressed to the
applicable office as provided for inthis Agreement, by registered or certified mail
‘addressed to the office actually maintained by Consultant, or by personal delivery
‘on any officer, director, or managing or general agent of Consultant. If any action
is brought by Consultant against the City concerning this Agreement, the action
‘must be brought only in those courts located within the County of Cook, State of
Mlinois,

Severability

{fany provision of this Agreement is held or deemed to be or isin fact unvalid,
illegal, inoperative or unenforceable as applied in any particular case in any
Jurisdiction or in all cases because it conflicts with any other provision or
provisions of this Agreement or of any constitution, statute, ordinance, rule of law
‘or public policy, or for any other reason, those circumstances do not have the
effect of rendering the provision in question invalid, illegal, inoperative or
‘unenforceable in any other case or circumstances, or of rendering any other
provision or provisions in this Agreement invalid, illegal, inoperative or
lunenforceable to any extent whatsoever. ‘The invalidity, illegality, inoperativeness
or unenforceability of any one or more phrases, sentences, clauses or sections in
this Agreement does not affect the remaining portions of this Agreement or any
part oft

Rensed January 14,2004 (TA) 32
rm enc nae tg See

9.6 Assigns

All ofthe terms and conditions ofthis Agreement are binding upon and inure to
the benefit of the parties and their respective legal representatives, successors and
assigns.

9.7 Cooperation

‘Consultant must at all times cooperate fully with the City and act in the City’s best
interests, Ifthis Agreement is terminated for any reason, or if it is to expire on its
‘own terms, Consultant must make every effort to assure an orderly transition to
‘another provider of the Services, if any, orderly demobilization of its own
‘operations in connection with the Services, uninterrupted provision of Services
during any transition period and must otherwise comply with the reasonable
requests and requirements of the Department in connection withthe termination
or expiration.

98 Waiver

‘Nothing in this Agreement authorizes the waiver ofa requirement or condition
contrary to law of ordinance or that would result in or promote the violation of
any federal, state or local law or ordinance

Whenever under this Agreement the City by a proper authonty waives
‘Consultant's performance in any respect or waives @ requirement or condition to
cither the City’s or Consultant's performance, the waiver so granted, whether
‘express or implied, only applies to the particular instance and is not a waiver
forever or for subsequent instances ofthe performance, requirement or condition.
'No such waiver is a modification of this Agreement regardless of the number of
times the City may have waived the performance, requirement or condition. Such
‘waivers must be provided to Consultant in writing.

9.9 Independent Contractor

‘Thus Agreement is not intended to and will not constitute, create, give rise to, or
otherwise recognize a joint venture, partnership, corporation or other formal
business association or organization of any kind between Consultant and the City
The rights and the obligations of the parties are only those set forth in this
Agreement. Consultant must perform under this Agreement as an independent
‘contractor and not as a representative, employee, agent, or partner of the City.

Revised January 16, 2004 (TA) 3
rma Aranda tne Sr

‘This Agreement is between the City and an independent contractor and, if
Consultant is an individual, nothing provided for under this Agreement constitutes
‘or implies an employer-employee relationship such that:

@

(O)

©

‘The City will not be liable under or by reason of this Agreement for the
‘payment of any compensation award or damages in connection with
‘Consultant performing the Services required under this Agreement.

Consultant 1s not entitled to membership in the City of Chicago Pension
Fund, Group Medical Insurance Program, Group Dental Program, Group
Vision Care, Group Life Insurance Program, Deferred Income Program,

vacation, sick leave, extended sick leave, or any other benefits ordinarily
provided to individuals employed and paid through the regular payrolls of|
the City of Chicago.

‘The City of Chicago is not required to deduct or withhold any taxes, FICA,
or other deductions from any compensation provided to Consultant.

NOTICES

‘Notices provided for inthis Agreement, unless provided for otherwise in this Agreement, must

be given in wnting and may be

ivered personally or by placing in the United States mail, frst

class and certified, return receipt requested, with postage prepaid and addressed as follows:

Ifto the City

City of Chucago Department of Water Management
1000 East Ohio Street
Chicago, Ilinois 60611

and

Department of Procurement Services
Room 403, City Hall

121 North LaSalle Street

Chicago, Ilinois 60602

Attention: Chief Procurement Officer

With Copies to: Department of Law

Room 600, City Hall
121 North LaSalle Street
‘Chicago, Illinots 60602

ensed January 14,2004 (TA) EY
ln gn gn St
Attention: Corporation Counsel
Ifto Consultant: To the address set forth inthe preamble of this Agreement

‘Changes in these addresses must be in writing and delivered in accordance with the provisions of
this Article 10. Notices delivered by mail are considered received three days after mailing in
‘accordance with this Article 10. Notices delivered personally are considered effective upon
receipt. Refusal to accept delivery has the same effect as receipt.

ARTICLE 11. AUTHORITY

Execution ofthis Agreement by Consultant is authorized by a resolution ofits Board of
Directors, if « corporation, or similar governing document, and the signature(s) of each person
signing on behalf of Consultant have been made with complete and full authority to commit
‘Consultant to all terms and conditions of this Agreement, including each and every
representation, certification and warranty contained init, ncluding the representations,
certifications and warranties collectively incorporated by reference init.

ARTICLE 12, SPECIAL CONDITIONS REGARDING MBE/WBE COMMITMENT

Inthe performance of this Agreement, including the procurement and lease of materials or
‘equipment, Consultant must abide by the minority and women's business enterprise commitment
requirements of the Municipal Code of Chicago, ch. 2-92, Sections 2-92-420 et seq (1990),
‘except to the extent waived by the Chief Procurement Officer and the Special Conditions
Regarding Target Market Commitment set forth in this Article 12. Consultant's completed
‘Schedules C-2 and D-2 in Exhibit 3, evidencing its compliance with this requirement, ae a part
ofthis Agreement upon acceptance by the Chief Procurement Officer, Consultant must utilize
‘and women's business enterprises atthe greater of the amounts listed in those Schedules
‘C-2 and D-2 or the percentages listed in them as applied to all payments received from the City.

[Signature Page to follow)

Rewsed January 14, 2008 (TA) 35
ne ek gd pment

SIGNED at Chicago, Hlinoi

CITY OF CHICAGO Ma
iayor
“a at ZA plbrne
Cif Procire .

Recommended By:

Commissioner

DESQOTO, INC.
By: bins Os
te:_PResipewt
(resident or Authorized Officer)
State of Tilinais
County of Coo\e

‘This instrament was acknowledged before me on “Tune 2l_aen\). (date by
President

(name/s of person/s) as,

Enderve_d' Eycoto
(type of authority, eg. officer, trustee, ete.) of_F Escobe The.
(came of party on behalf of whom instrument was exeeuted)

‘Gienifare of Notary Pulific)

CERES

LUZ M ALMAGUER
[NOTARY Pus, STATE OF RLNIIS
So Commssen Eos May 23,205

‘RewsedJamary 14, 2004 (TA)
ah ag gy ee

‘Signature Page
SIGNED at Chicago, Mlinois:
CITY OF CHICAGO
By:
Mayor
‘Comptroller

Chief Procurement Officer

Recommended

Liebe

‘Commissioner

D'ESQOTO, INC.

its__PResipenT

(President or Authorized Officer)
State of Ti Vinats
County of Coole
‘This instrament was seknemedged nt before me on lune al.a00y (date) by

Tedecica_d'Eocoto
(ype of authority, eg. officer, trustee, ete.) of
(name of party on behalf of whom instrument was executed)

Gignddure of Notary Public)

FORCED
LUZ MM. ALMAGUER
NOTARY PUBL, STATE OF LLNONS

‘Rensed January 14,2004 (TA) SST HHoY Et ay 23. 2005
EXHIBIT

Scope of Services and Schedule for Performance

RevsedJarary 14, 2004 (74)
‘Target Market
SCOPE OF SERVICES

‘The Department will provide the Consultant with a Scope of Services for a task assignment
describing the project requirements, including basic equipment guidelines and standards to be
used. A typical task assignment may include a scope similar to the following:

10

20

30

3a

SERVICES DESCRIPTION

Consultant must provide Construction Management Consulting Services for the
complete project in accordance with the scope, terms and conditions of consultant's
‘executed Term Agreement.

PERSONNEL

‘An Illinois Licensed Professional Engineer and/or Architect must represent Consultant as
Project Manager for all activities and procedures, for all Services accomplished for the
Department. Provide the services of a qualified Resident Engineer and Field Assistance
Personnel on site during construction with experience on similar Services within the City
‘of Chicago, CDWM, and/or other City agencies and other experienced personnel in all
disciplines, as well as technical and support staff as required. Provide office support
Personnel as necessary. If any person furnished by Consultant for the project is unable to
continue in the performance of assigned duties for any reason, Consultant must promptly
notify the CDWM explaining the circumstances.

Consultant must furnish to the CDWM the name of a person to substitute for the person
‘unable to continue, together with any information the CDWM may require to judge the
experience and competence of the substitute person. Upon approval by the CDWM, such
substitute person must be assigned to the project. If, in the opinion of the CDWM, the
performance of personnel of the Consultant assigned to the project 1s unacceptable,
Consultant must remove such personnel from this project. Consultant must then furnish
to the CDWM the name of a substitute person or persons in accordance with the previous
requirement.

CONSTRUCTION PHASE

‘Any proposals and subsequent Invoices, at a minimum, shall be subdivided according to

the tasks listed in Attachment A. Invoices must be submitted monthly and must include,

Dut are not limited to, the following:

8) CDWM’s voucher for professional services with official signature.

'b) Summary listing of staff, staff positions, hours expended, hourly rates, and
appropriate markups for both prime and prime Subconsultants,

©) Detail listing of staff and charges for each task,

4) Value of each task, amount spent to date, amount remaining and estimate to complete.

) Listing of the total value of the assignment, amount of current invoice, amount of
invoicing to date, balance remaining to complete and estimate to complete the project.

4) Timesheets,

8) Other documents as required for approval of invoices.

32

33

34

35

36

1h) As applicable, provide with the invoice an attachment listing the status of approved

Service outside of the original Scope of Services for design services. Prior approval

required by the CDWM before the performance of any Services outside of the
tified Scope of Services.

OBSERVATION

4) Observe and document the quality, conformance and progress of the Services.

')_ Observe construction contractor compliance with environmental requirements.

©) Advise construction contractor of deficient work or work which is not in
‘compliance with the contract documents.

MEETINGS

4) Participate in pre-bid mecting.

») Participate in a pre-construction meeting.

©) Schedule and chair weekly construction progress meetings.

4) Schedule and chair construction coordinating meetings.

©) Participate in all other project meetings as required including coordination
‘meetings with plant personnel.

) Prepare all meeting agenda and minutes and distribute to Commissioner,
construction contractor, and Operating Personnel.

PERMITTING
4) Assist construction contractor in obtaining necessary permits.
) Attend meetings as required.

©) Develop and provide documentation as required.

SUBMITTALS

a) Log incoming and outgoing submittals between construction contractor and the
‘Commissioner.

) Evaluate submittals for compliance with specified requirements and
‘completeness before reyecting or forwarding to the Project Design Consultant.

©) Review submittals retumed from the Project Design Consultant for
completeness before returning to contractor.

6) Monitor submittal turn-around time for compliance with the specifications and
‘expedite the submittal process.

©) Distribute submittals in accordance with established requirements.

REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION

4) Screen construction contractor's Request for Information, rejecting and
retuming those that are frivolous or already addressed in the contract
documents.

+) Issue appropriate RFI’s to CWP and Project Design Consultant for response.

(©) Provide weekly status update and log.

4) Forward responses to the construction contractor and the Commissioner.
37

38

39

3.0

SUBSTITUTIONS

2) Review substitution requests and recommend disposition.

Issue appropriate substitutions request to CWP and Project Design Consultant for
review and response.

©) Provide weekly status update and log.

{9} Forward responses to construction contractor and the Commissioner.

CHANGE ORDERS

) Evaluate requests for contract modification, obtain Project Design Consultant input,
‘and prepare recommendation to the Commissioner regarding acceptance or rejection.

'b) Assemble all documentation relative to the change order.

©) Draft a Request for Proposal letter to be sent to construction contractor in response to
the change order.

4) Review and evaluate the Project Design Consultant’s and construction contractor's
‘estimates of costs and/or time associated withthe change order, negotiate costs with
the contractor, and prepare recommendation to the Commissioner regarding approval
‘or rejection.

©) Provide weekly status update and log.

‘TESTING

a) As required, engage the services of an independent materials testing firm 10
perform the required testing of excavations, embankment, back fill materials,
Pavements, concrete and an environmental testing firm to perform required
‘environmental clearance testing.

') Coordinate on-site testing activities including those provided and performed by
‘construction contractor.

©) Coordinate and request “Factory Witness Testing” identified in the contract
documents and schedule CWP and Design Staff on approach.

4) Evaluate test results and forward them to the Commissioner and operating
personnel for information.

DOCUMENTATION

8) Maintain 2 diary documenting all jobsite activities.

b). Maintain daily records of measurements and quantities.

©). Maintain records required by governmental agencies.

4) Maintain logs of incoming and outgoing submittals.

{2} Maintain logs of incoming and outgoing requests for information (RFT's).

1) Maintain correspondence files.

8) Maintain files on all testing activities.

1h) Maintain up-to-date records on project budget, change orders and potential
changes.

ji) Maintain up-to-date records on project schedule, variances and corrective
action.

4) Mamtain accurate records of al field changes.

k) Originate and maintain a photographic or video record of construction progress.

1). Maintain copies of all approved submittals.

3
3a

32

33

34

3s

1m) Verify that construction contractor's “as-built” drawings are up to date and
accurate.

INSPECTION

1) Inspect materials delivered to the site for compliance with approved submittals
and reject unapproved materials,

') Inspect the construction work for compliance with the specifications and
drawings.

©) Forward material certifications, warranties to the Project Design Consultant for
‘evaluation, and after approval, to the Commissioner and operating personnel.

4) Coordinate inspections by the Project Design Consultant as required.

‘SCHEDULES

2) Evaluate construction contractor's schedule of values and recommend approval
to the Commissioner.

'b) Evaluate construction contractor's submittal schedule and recommend approval
to the Commissioner.

©) Evaluate construction contractor's construction schedule and recommend
approval to the Commissioner.

4) Request and evaluate periodic construction schedule updates.

€) Evaluate construction schedule variances and recommend approval to the
‘Commissioner.

‘CORRESPONDENCE
4) Draft project correspondence directed tothe construction contactor.

') Draft construction related correspondence directed to governmental agencies.
‘Draft field memos for minor construction contract changes.

4) Draft bulletins for significant construction contract changes.

©) Draft change orders and assembles supportive documentation.

REPORTS

) Prepare and distribute monthly summary reports, covering progress, issues,
‘budget, schedule and a 30-day look ahead.

'b) Prepare special reports, presentations or analyses as required.

©) Prepare and distribute weekly progress reports.

4) Prepare and distribute a weekly report on submittal status and disposition

‘) Prepare and distribute a weekly report on the status of requests for information.

4) Prepare and distribute a weekly report on the status of requests for information
‘change orders,

Prepare and distribute a weekly report on the status of requests for information
requests for substitution.

COORDINATION

') Serve as the interface between the Commissioner, construction contractor and
‘operating personnel

)_ Coordinate activities of other construction contractors working atthe site.

‘4
316

37

©) Coordinate construction activities with Department of Water Management
requirements.

4) Monitor on site activities of utility companies.

€) Coordinate the assembly of submittal comments.

) Coordinate with the Project Design Consultant relative to their specified
involvement in project construction requirements.

PAY REQUESTS

a) Verify invoiced quantities and percent completion.

'b) Negotiate with construction contractor over disputed invoice amounts.
©) Review and recommend invoice payment to the Commissioner.

CLOSEOUT

a) Participate in final inspection and prepare punchlist.

) Monitor punchlist work and verify satisfactory completion.

©) Verify that construction contractor has furnished all specified lighting
‘maintenance and warranty materials.

4) Verify that construction contractor has received a set of contract drawings
(reproducible media or CAD files) and has made good “as-built” changes by
revising the original electronic copy.

©) Prepare final documentation and acceptance letter of completed project.

ATTACHMENT.

‘Sample Proposal and invoice Tasks

3. Permitting

4, Submittals

6. Substitution

7. Change Orders

9. Documentation
10. Inspection

LL. Schedules

12. Correspondence
13. Reports

14, Coordination
15, Pay Requests
16, Close-Out
IEPA LOAN REQUIREMENTS
Department of Water Management
‘January 2003,

INTRODUCTION

‘The Department of Water Management (CDWM) obtains loan funding from the Ilinois
Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA) for design and construction of various projects. In
‘order to qualify for IEPA loan funding of engineering services, the Agreements between the City
and the Consulting Engineering firm must include the language identified below as required by
the IEPA loan regulations, and Consultant must complete the attached USEPA form entitled
“Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension And Other Responsibility Matters”, which will
be included with the attachments required for Consultant to complete as part of the process for
‘execution an agreement for this scope of work.

‘REQUIRED IEPA LOAN PROVISIONS

1

inois Public Water Supply Loan Program (PWSLP).

‘The City of Chicago may obtain funds from the PWSLP for projects Consultant
provides construction management services for under this agreement. The
Consultant will conform to the IEPA requirements in this Article.

Certification that person(s) performing the services for the loan project have not
been debarred or suspended in accordance with Federal Executive Order 12549.
Sign the attached EPA form 5700-49 (11-88) certifying that person(s) performing
the Services for the loan project have not been debarred or suspended in accordance
with Federal Executive Order 12549,

Audits, access to records:

Maintain records, and provide access to audits in accordance with IEPA
‘Requirements for Audits and Access to Records.

‘A. Books, records, documents and other evidence directly pertinent to
performance of the PWSLP loan work under this agreement shall be
‘maintained consistent with generally accepted accounting standards (GAAP)
in accordance with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
Professional Standards. The Agency (IEPA) or any of its authorized
representatives shall have access to the Consultant's books, records,
documents and other evidence for the purpose of inspection, audit, and
‘copying. Facilities shall be provided for access and inspection.

B. Audits conducted pursuant to this provision shall be in accordance with
GAAP.
C. All information and reports resulting from access to records pursuant to
‘Subsection 5.3A above shall be disclosed to the Agency (IEPA). The
auditing agency shall afford the consultant an opportunity for an audit exit
conference and an opportunity to comment on the pertinent portions of the
draft audit report. The final audit report shall include the written comments,
if any, of the audited parties.

D. Records under Subsection 53A above shall be maintained and made
available during performance of project services under this agreement and
for three years after the final closing of the loan between the City of
Chicago and the Agency (IEPA). In addition, those records that relate to
any dispute pursuant to Illinois Statutes Title 35 Subtitle F Chapter IK Part
(662. Section 662.650 (disputes with Agency concerning loans) or litigation
or the settlement of claims arising out of project performance or costs or
items to which an audit exception has been taken, shall be maintained and
‘made available for three years after the resolution of the appeal, litigation,
claim or exception.

4. Covenant against contingent fees:

‘The Consultant shall warrant that no person or selling agency has been employed or
retained to solicit or secure the contract upon an agreement or understanding for a
‘commission, percentage, brokerage or continent fee. For breach or violation of this
‘warranty, the City shall have the right to annul the contract without liability or in its
discretion to deduct from the contact price or consideration, or otherwise recover,
the fill amount of such commission, percentage, brokerage, or contingent fee.

CERTIFICATION REGARDING DEBARMENT, SUSPENSION AND OTHER
RESPONSIBILITY MATTERS:

‘The Consultant must complete the attached USEPA form entitled “Certification Regarding
Debarment, Suspension and Other Responsibility Matters” as part of IEPA loan requirements.
United States
Environmental Protection Agency

"washingun OC 2048

Certification Regarding
Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters

(a) Arenatotesenty bared suspended propose tor debamentdecired neg er hiaty

(et Ave not present eas for thaws ema oF ovty charge by 2 goverment ety
(ederat Stam orca) wih comma any ote aenror erates paagtpn (1) of

() Have not min athrn-earsevad pacrang hs apseston
Wrarsaceons (Federal State or ca trminotn of cause 2

15410090 or meraonmentforup

y tone stove statumants My alana tad
Attachment A

Key Personnel
Exhibit |

KEY PERSONNEL
D’Escoto Inc.

Peter D. Antosh Project Executive
Jeremy T. Smerage Project Executive
Jeffrey R.Havel Project Executive
Frank Dello

Willie Harris
Andy Ellashevesky Field Engineer
Rafael Herrera Project Manager

Eugene Kim Project Manager
Greg Pestine Project Manager
Robert Santucci Field Engineer
Jon Ebers Project Manager
Tom Lyon Project Manager
John Dore Field Engineer

‘Span Technology Inc.
SmitaN.Shah Project Executive
Nural Chowdhury Project Manager
Frank Bresendorf Project Manager
Steve MeMahon

Jarod Bradfield
David Parker
Noreen Brachmana Field Engineer
David Vigielmo Field Engineer

Attachment B

Schedule of Performance
‘Schedule of Performance

‘This Agreement takes effect as of its execution by the City( "Effective Date"), and will continue for
36 Months , or until the agreement i terminated in accordance with its terms, whichever occurs fist.

Task Orders

‘The Commissioner will provide the Consultant with a basic Task Order form after contract
award.

All Services must be authorized by a written Task Order. Consultant acknowledges and
agrees that the City is under no obligation to issue any Task Orders for Services.

Upon the written approval of the Commissioner, the Department will issue a Task Order
Request specifically referencing this Agreement, identifying the project, and setting forth
the Services to be performed pursuant to the proposed Task Order and a desired
completion date Consultant must respond by proposing a time schedule, budget,
deliverables and a list of key personnel, all of which must conform to the terms of the Task
Order Request and the terms and conditions of this Agreement. Coneultant must not
respond to any Task Order Request not approved in writing by the Commissioner, Costs
‘associated withthe preparation of Task Orders are not compensable under this Agreement
and the City is not lable for any additional costs.

Following Consultant's submission of the Task Order, the Commissioner and the Chief
Procurement Officer will review the Task Order and may elect to approve t, reject, or use
itas a basis for further negotiations with the Consultant regarding the scope of the project
‘and the project completion date Ifthe City and the Consultant negotiate the scope of the
project and the project completion date, the Consultant must submit a revised Task Order
(based upon such negotiations) to the City for approval

{All Task Orders are subject to the approval of the Chief Procurement Officer and no Task
Order will become binding upon the City unt! it is approved, in writing, by the Chief
Procurement Officer Absent approval of a Task Order by the Chief Procurement Officer,
the City will not be obligated to pay or have any liability, under any theory of recovery
(whether under the Agreement, at law or in equity), to the Consultant for any Services
provided by the Consultant pursuant to a Task Order, or otherwise

If the Services to be performed under a Task Order are to be funded from a fund other
than the fund identified by the fund number set forth in this Agreement, such change in
funding must be approved by the Chief Procurement Officer and the Comptroller prior to
the issuance of any Task Order funded through such fund, and the applicable fund
‘number must be included in the Task Order form provided to the Consultant

Notice to Proceed

‘The Consultant will commence ts Services immediately upon receipt of an executed Notice
to Proceed issued by the Commissioner or his authonzed designee.
Attachment C

Project Insurance
AcoRD. CERTIFICATE OF LIABILITY INSURANCE.

See rate mee
A iiituae cay MO EES

scot Faces Pd Tania

SCRE se t

i]

|

|

| |

al oxrasiea

| |

LP

Tekan |

| Bes |

17 =] 1

al Be (Clamewoe | xvess0s7670 01/20/06| 01/20/05

| Famers |

| Himes _«

PEER | SS Seaiee

T
3 professtonas Lian. 97/27/03 | 07/27/04)
033449

‘o0000s

oR a aT,

20 some ONT O0SSY MOUHORY per-sez-21E 19169 we/re/90
FES ERVICE
‘Department of Water Management
Construction Management Consulting Services

Consultant must provide and maintain at Consuttant's own expense, during the term ofthis,
‘Agreement and any time period following expiration if Consultant is required to return and
perform any of the Services or Additional Services under this Agreement, the msurance
coverages and requirements spectied below, insuring all operations related to this
Agreement

‘A. _ INSURANCE TO BE PROVIDED
1) Workers Compensation and Employers Liabilty

Workers Compensation Insurance, as prescribed by applicable law, covering all
employees who are to provide any services under this Agreement and Employers.
Liabilty coverage with limits of not ess than $500,000 each accident or liness.

2) — Commercial General Liability (Pnmary and Umbrella)

‘Commercial General Liabilty Insurance or equivalent with limits of not less than
‘$2,000,000 per occurrence for bodily mury, personal injury and property damage
iability. Coverages must include the following: All premises and operations,
products/completed operations, separation of insureds, defense and contractual
liability (with no limitation endorsement). The City of Chicago is to be named as an
additional insured on a primary, non-contributory basis for any liabilty arising
directly or indirectly from the Services.

‘Subcontractors performing work for the Consultant must maintain limits of not less
than $1,000,000 with the same terms herein.

3) Automobile Liability (Primary and Umbrelta)

When any motor vehicles (owned, non-owned and hired) are used in connection
with Services to be performed, Consultant must provide Automobile Liability
Insurance with limits of not less than $2,000,000 per occurrence for bodily injury and
Property damage The City of Chicago is to be named as an additonal insured on
a primary, non-contributory basis.

‘Subcontractors performing work for the Consultant must maintain limits of not less.
than $1,000,000 with the same terms herein.

4) Professional Liabilty

‘When any architects, engineers or other professional consultants perform Services
In connection with this Agreement, Professional Liability Insurance covering acts,
errors or omissions must be maintained with limits of not less than $2,000,000
Coverage must include contractual ability When policies are renewed or replaced,
the policy retroactive date must coincide with, or precede, start of Services on the
‘Agreement. A claims-made policy which 1s not renewed or replaced must have an
‘extended reporting penod of 2 years:
‘Subcontractors performing work for the Consultant must maintain limits of not less
than $1,000,000 with the same terms herein.

5) Valuable Papers

‘When any ians, designs, drawings, specifications, media, data and documents are
produced or used under this Agreement, Valuable Papers Insurance must be
maintained in an amount to insure against any loss whatsoever, and must have
limts sufficient to pay for the re-creation and reconstruction of such records.

6) Property

‘The Consuttant is responsible for all loss or damage to City property at full
replacement cost.

Consuttant 18 responsible for all loss or damage to personal property (including
‘materials, equipment, tools and supplies) owned, rented or used by Consultant.

B. ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS

Consultant must furnish the City of Chicago, Department of Procurement Services, City
Hall, Room 403, 121 North LaSalle Street 60602, original Certficates of Insurance, or such
similar evidence, to be in force on the date ofthis Agreement, and Renewal Certificates.
of Insurance, or such similar evidence, ifthe coverages have an expiration or renewal date
‘occurring during the term of this Agreement Consultant must submit evidence of
insurance on the City of Chicago Insurance Certificate Form (copy attached as Exhibit-)
‘or equivalent prior to Agreement award The receipt of any certificate does not constitute
agreement by the City that the insurance requirements in this Agreement have been fully
‘met or that the insurance policies indicated on the certificate are in compliance with all
‘Agreement requirements. The failure ofthe City to obtain certificates or other insurance
‘evidence from Consultant is not a waiver by the City of any requirements for Consultant
to obtain and maintain the specified coverages. Consultant must advise all insurers of the
‘Agreement provisions regarding insurance. Non-conforming insurance does not relieve
Consultant of the obligation to provide insurance as specfied in this Agreement.
‘Nonfutfilment of the insurance conditions may consttute a violation of the Agreement, and
the City retains the right to suspend this Agreement until proper evidence of msurance is
provided, or the Agreement may be terminated

‘The insurance must provide for 60 days prior wntten notice to be given to the City inthe event
coverage 1s substantially changed, canceled or non-renewed

‘Any deductibles or selt-nsured retentions on referenced insurance coverages must be borne
by Consuttant

Consultant agrees that insurers waive their rights of subrogation against the City of Chicago,
its employees, elected officials, agents or representatives.

‘The coverages and limits furnished by Consultant inno way limit the Consultant’ habrities and
responsibiltes specified within this Agreement or by law.

‘Any insurance or sefnsurance programs maintained by the City of Chicago do not contnbute
with insurance provided by Consultant under this Agreement
The required insurance to be carried 1s not limited by any limitatons expressed in the
indemnification language in this Agreement or any limitation placed on the indemnity in this
‘Agreement given as a matter of law.

Consultant must require all Subcontractors to provide the insurance required in this
‘Agreement, of Consultant may provide the coverages for Subcontractors All Subcontractors

re subject to the same insurance requirements as Consultant unless otherwise specified in
this Agreement

I Consultant or Subcontractor desire additional coverages, the party desiring the additional
coverages 1s responsible for the acquisition and cost

‘The City of Chicago Risk Management Department maintains the right to modify, delete, alter
or change these requirements,
a And Den gy Se
EXHIBIT 2
‘Schedule of Compensation

Revsed January 14,2004 (TA)
EXBIBIT2
(COMPENSATION AND METHOD OF PAYMENT.
(COSTS PLUS FIXED FEE

‘A. Compensation Component

Consultant will be compensated for its Services based on actual costs plus a fixed fee. Allowability
and allocabiity of costs will be determined in accordance with the terms and conditions of this
‘Agreement. Compensation will consist of: 1] the cost of labor; 2] the overhead and burden, including
‘bat not limited to payroll related taxes, insurance and fringe benefits; 3] certain direct costs; 4]
Subcontractors; and 5] a fixed fee, as described below:

{Labor Costs: Labor costs will consist of th actual costs of all allowable and allocable salaries and
wages (exclusive of overtime premiums and payroll related taxes, insurance and fringe benefits)
‘paid to Consultant's and Subcontractors’ employees forthe time spent inthe performance of
Services under this Agreement (collectively, "Labor Costs’) Labor Costs for Consultant and
Subcontractors by postion classification ae set forth in Attachment A to this Exhibit. Labor
Costs associated with Consultant and Subcontractor principals for administrative tasks are not
‘reimbursable. Principals may bil for Labor Costs for non-admunistrative tasks directly applicable
to the Services only by request and pnor approval ofthe City.

2.Overhead and Burden: Overhead and burdea will consist of actual indirect costs of the home and
‘branch offices of Consultant and Subcontractors which are allowable and allocable tothe Services
(collectively, "Overhead". The Overhead rates set forth n subsection () below willbe applied to
Labor Costs for purposes of invovcing.

Audits

‘The City reserves the right to audit Consultant's and/or Subcontractors’ Overhead
rate(s) and/or any of the components of the compensation.

b. Overhead rates

‘Subject tothe imitation set forth in 2(c) below, the Overbead rate applicable to Consultant
‘employees who perform Services in relation to this Agreement is: %

Overhead rates applicable to Subcontractors employees are listed mn Attachment B and are not
Permitted to exceed the Consultant's. Consultant must grant the City Overhead rates
generally offered to Consultant's preferred clients subject to limutations described here.

«Limitation on Overhead
‘The compensation due to Consultant and Subcontractors will not exceed 150% of Labor Coss.

If 1DOT has determined a current rate, or an audit acceptable by the City has been
‘determined, the Consultant's and Subcontractors’ overbead rate will not exceed the lessor of.
the rates specified.

Consultant's and Subcontractors’ Overhead rate may not exceed the lowest of (a) the rate
‘specified above; (b) the rate determined at a later date by IDOT; o () the rate determined at
later date by an audit acceptable tothe City. ‘The City has the right to recapture the difference
between the amount thas actally pad to Consultant and the amount it should have paid under
the preceding sentence.

‘Direct Costs: Direct costs will consist of those costs described below which:

sJareincured inthe performance of Services under this Agreement;

ii] areallowabl and allocable tothe project;

il] are aot eluded i Overhead; and

1») ae routinely and uniformly charged to spect projects under Consultants accounung system
(collectively, "Direct Costs"),

‘Any expenditure in excess of $5,000 which qualifies asa Direct Cost will equie por spproval of
the Commissioner. Consultant may not break down an expenditure which would otherwise be
greater than $5,000 in order to avoud this approval requirement. Direct Costs will include the
following:

Drawings, Printing and Reproduction Costs. The costs of all printing, binding and
reproduction related only tothe production of the milestone submittals tothe City

. Long Distance Telephone/Telegraph and Shipping Costs. Long distance telephone call,
postage, messenger nd overnight delivery cost.

‘¢ Travel and Related Expenses. Out of town travel 1s not antcipated under this Agreement
However, should out of tow travel become necessary inthe performance of the Services,
CConsultat must obtain prior writen approval from the City for expenses related to travel into
‘or out of the Caty. All such expenses must conform withthe City’s travel reimbursement
‘guidelines, a copy of which s attached here as Attachment C. Expenses incurred for rave in
‘Chucago willbe subyect to Group I Limitations asset forth inthe City's guidelines,

‘In accordance with Attachment , the City will pay 36.0 cents per mile to Consultant and/or
‘Subcontractors for travel associated wath projec site visits as required by the Commissioner,

4d. Equipment, Toots and Vehicles. Cost of any equipment, tools, furniture, computer
‘equipment, or vehicles hiredeased or purchased for Consultant's performance ofthe Services,
provided that any such item purchased wall become the property of the City and further
‘provided that Consultant must obtan prior writen approval ofthe City forthe purchase, hire
‘orlease of such equipment, tool, furniture, computer equipmeat or vehicles tothe extent any
‘one such item wall cost in excess of $500.

‘Permits and Fees. Costs to Coasultant for permits and fees, if any, required to carry out the
Services, except for normal business and professional fees (which Consultant may include in
sts Overhead cost poo!)

£. Premium on overtime. To the extent that Consultant pays its employees a premmum in excess
ofits hourly rates for overtime spent onthe projet the cost ofthe premium wil be treed as
4 Direct Cost which wil not be included ia Tabor Cost and which will not be subject
‘plication of ay Overhead rate. Any such overtime muntbe in accordance wih Costa
policies which ae subject to pie approval by the City.

§Miscellancous. Any other costs or expenses incured by Consultant 2s reasonable and
‘necessary forthe proper performance of the Services and allowable and directly allocable to
the project. Any expenditure in excess of $1,000 will require prior approval of the
‘Commssioner.

4.Subcontractors. The City wall reimburse Consultant for the costs of Subcontractors as those costs
are incurred under or in connection with Subcontracs awarded by Consultant in accordance with
‘the terms and conditions of this Agreement, subject to the City’s prior wntten approval.

‘The costs of Subcontractors which are reimbursable to Consultant will include the Subcontractors!
Labor Costs, Overhead, fixed fee and Direct Costs and, except as otherwise provided in
‘Attachment B to this Exhibit, are subject to those terms and limitations established for Labor
‘Costs, Overhead and Direct Costs in this Exhibit 2A. In ao event is Consultant entitled to any
‘mark-up of Subcontractor costs.

‘S.Fixed Fee. The City will pay Consultant a fixed fee (Fixed Fee”) amount as an allowance for
‘profit tobe earned inthe performance of Services under this Agreement by Consultant. Consultant
‘may receive progress payments on Fixed Fee only in such amouat proportionate tothe Services
satisfactonly performed as ofthe date of the invoice. However, Consultant will not be esttled 10
reczivea portion of the Fixed Fee, which exceeds the percent of progress achieved by Consultant
1s of the date of the invoice in relation to the Services. In any event, progress payments on Fixed
‘Fee will not exceed the amount set forth above inthe aggregate. For purposes of paymeat ofthis
Fixed Fee satisfactory completion ofthe Services means the provision by Consultant of acceptable
Deliverables and the timely achievement of milestones and will not be construed solely ma terms
of expenditure of Consultants time

Negobation of Fixed Fee: For purposes of determining the fixed fe foreach task onder, the City
‘wall sepsite the Consultant's profit ata fxed fee dollar amount. ‘The maximum fixed foe
applicable to each task order will not exceed 10% ofan amount equal to the sum of labor costs
‘his overhead and burden.

6.Maximum Compensation. The maximum compensation uader this Agreement may not exceed
‘$1,000,000 00

und Number: 01-227-87-3360-0540-0540
Method of Payment

|Linvolees. Once exch month, Consultant must submit to the City an invoice for Services performed
danng the preceding month. Consultant must support each invoice with reasonable detail
including Subcontractor costs. In accordance with the terms ofthe Agreement, Consultant must
‘maintain complete documentation of all costs incurred for review and audit bythe City ois
designated audit represeatative(s). Consultant must also clude in its invosce a portion of the
Fixed Fee as stipulated above. Consultant must submit each invoice in the format directed by the
City and provide with t a progress repor in a format acceptable to the City. The progress report
‘must identify any variances from budget or schedule and explain the reasons for the variances.

2.Payment. Payment will be processed within 60 days after the City's approval of an acceptable

‘3.lnvoice Dispotes. If certain items contained in Consultant's invoices are dispoted by the City, the
‘amount not in question must be paid in full. The amount in question must be resolved 1m
accordance with the Disputes provision ofthis Agreement.
ATTACHMENT A
MAXIMUM HOURLY LABOR RATES
CONSULTANT

Maximum Hourly Rate
(Bacto Toe, Team
‘Specification No. 18786

‘Atachnent A
‘MAXIMUM HOURLY LABOR RATES
CONSULTANT
Potion amiation Ed 2008 ms 2m
Project Beste 6500 0 nm 7500
Projet Monge 3500 00 61.00 65.00
Resident Fagincer 38.00 s190 3900 12.00
Texbaicier 30.00 32.00 3400 3700

Adminatrave Seppor, 20 400 2600 2.00
ATTACHMENT A (continued)
SUBCONTRACTORS

Position Classification ‘Maximum Hourly Rate
ATTACHMENT A.
MAXIMUM HOURLY RATE

‘Spaan Technology
ROSTIION CLASSIFICATION MAXIMUM HOURLY RATE
Projset Manager sass
‘Senior Mechanteal Engineer 6083
Sentor Electrical Engineer sors
Civ Engineer sors
Blectrieal Engineer sat
CAD Technician, 3473
Construction Engineer sea20
Construction Inspector 4283
Field Support souio

Note: These rates are the marianam projected bourty labor rates forthe duration
of the contract period through December 31, 2007. Thereafter, there willbe a 5%
cost of living increase January 1 of exch contract year,
ATTACHMENT B

SUBCONTRACTOR
OVERHEAD AND BURDEN RATES
AND ESTABLISHED FIXED FEES
Illinois Department of Transportation

scene

sy 17,2008 wu

‘Subject PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING A 22 2003
Constant Unt et00,
Prequalification File. ino.

Me Rodngo Oscot0

Descot, ne

1 East Ene

Suto 520

Chicago, IL 60611
Doar Mr. D'Escoto

We have completed our review of the corporate and financial information portion
of your "Statement of Experience and Financial Conditon" (SEFC) which you
‘submitted forthe fiscal year ending December 31, 2002. Based on your reported
linots staff, your firm's annua Ilinois transportation fee is $3,000,000.

Your firm's payroll burden and fringe expense rate and general and administrate
expense rate totaling 111.65% are approved on a provisional basis and will be
used n evaluating your Statement(s) of Interest in our selection process The
‘actual rate used in agreement negotiations may be determined by our Bureau of
‘Accounting and Auditing in a pre-award audt.

‘Your firm 8 required to report to this office any additions or delotions of your
licensed professional staff or any other key personnel that would affect your firm's
prequalification n a particular category. This report must be subrmtted within 15
‘calendar days of the change.

‘Your firm is prequalified untl December 31, 2003. You will be gven an additional
‘8x months from this date to submt the entire "Statement of Expenence and
Financial Conditon” (SEFC) to reman prequalified.

Very truly yours,

Ont Ging

Chery! Cathey PE
Chuef of Preliminary Engineering
Illinois Department of Transportation

£2300 South Orrksen Parkway / Springfield Hinois / 62764

‘August 8, 2003

‘Subject PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING
Consultant Unit
Prequalificaton File

Mr Smita Shah

Spaan Technology, inc

850 W Jackson Blvd

Sutte 250

Chicago, IL 60807-

Dear Mr Shah

We have completed our review of your “Statement of Experence and Financial
Condition” (SEFC) which you submitted forthe fiscal year ending December 31
2002 Based on your reported transportation related staff and experience, you
have been prequalified n the transportation specialization categories indicated on
the attached summary Your frm’s total annual transportation fee capacty will be
31,800,000

‘Your firm's payroll burden and fange exzense rate and general and administratve
expense rate totaling 130 94% are approved on a prowsicnal basis and willbe
Used in evaluating your Statement(s) of Incerest in our selection process. The
actual rate used in agreement negobations may be determ ~e2 by aur Bureau of
‘Accounting ang Auditing in 3 pre-awars ausit

Your firm is requred ta reportto this office any additions or deletions of your
licensed professional staf or any other key personel that would affect your firm's
praquaifieaion in a particular category This report must be submited within 15,
calendar days of the change

Your frm 1s prequalified unbl December 31, 2003 You willbe gwen an adcitional
six months from this date to submit the Corcorate ard Financial Information
povion of the "Statement of Eapanence and Financial Condition” (SEFC) to
femamn prequaifies

Very truly yours,

Gauge Ge
contro’

SEFC PREQUALIFICATION

FIRM SPAAN TECHNOLOGY INC SOICOOE SPN BATE enone
PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS&ESTIMATES ———4
1 FREEWAYS 19 PLATE GIRDER sei0ce
2 ROADS ANO STREETS Xx Mt TeDarcn anicce
3 ARPORTS 12 SEGMENTED SOK GIRCER BRIDGE
4 ncaway STRUCTURE SIBLE 13 CONTICANT TRUSS BRICGE
‘5 GHWAY STRUCTURE FYPCCAL 14 ORTHOTROAIC GIRDER BRIDGE
5 MGHWAY STRUCTURE ABV TYPICAL 15 CABLE STAYED GIROER BRIDGE
7 HIGHWAY STRUCTURE COMPLEX 16 TRAFFIC SGMALS x
1 RAILROAD BROCE. 7 vowing x
9 Novaace acces 18 PuMPAG STATION
STuoIES
19 LOCATION ORANAGE x 2 sarerysuoes
2 Taarric TUDES 2 FeASaUITY STUDS:

21 SIGNAL CORONATION  TMNG (AT)

HYDRAULIC REPORTS ———y

24 WATERWAYS TYPICAL 28 PUNPSTATION
25 WATERWAYS COMPLEX

LOCATION AND DESIGN STUDIES ———————

BF REHABILITATION x 28 NewconstamRECONST
BE RECONST NAJREWAS x
ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES & REPORTS——————}
we SMRLEEA 2) COMPLEXE. eis
won rr suse sstest
SPECIAL DESIGN STUDIES ———————}
23 Mass TRANSIT 24 RAILWAY ENGINEZEING

SP ecIAL SERVICES

15 nouTe suRveY 14 noscape ater “ECTURE
36 Uso SURVEY 45 razeROOUS WASTE

37 AEDIAL VAPPING {5 ASBESTOS ABATEVENT SURVEY
38.GE0°ECMMICAL ENG? THPICAL 17 ConstAUCTION nEezCTION ,
38 Gz0"ECHNCAL ENGR COMPLEX 18 Our assuance

42 ELECTRICAL ENGNEERNG x 4 Brumnousmmossons

4) MESHANCAL ENINEE?ING $8 SUBSURFACE UTIL ENGINEERING
1 aPcpITECTURE

PREGA
A YOUINOCATED N:NOUSE CAPABILITYIN THESE AREAOF THE SEEC_ BUT HE FOUNO NO
Alefare The maximum daly rate designated for hot te for meals arc also a group categories Aay tps or ratty
tobe included.

‘Ongnalemized receipts forall costs must be attached to the approved travel request and submated with he moathy

Reimbursement aes are categonzed by relative travel cons associated wath certain cies. Group I and I lists are ot
all inclusve. For cies ot tte, please consult withthe Office of Budget & Management for appropriate
‘emnbunement ate,

(Per dem based wpon | STAND ALONE | GROUP | ‘oroue wcrris_| GRouP m
[Federal Government
New Yor Gey | Ata | Baus MD Kana Cy, MO
Rates; all rates willbe | Sisanan ‘Seow MA Govan, OF toa KY
‘updated annually). | New Youn | Cora t ena, of indo
on GAegien ca | Col Ot ‘site Mo
Pace ra | Dal 2 ‘Seopa
Siepracoon ca | Deer CO
Wasmopon be) | Dewees
Watmopoe DC | Howe, 1x
= Ince
Ua vepa
Atwematcat | Meng 7
Poy Maes
Mawous
Manet
pricy
ad
‘ew Onan 1A
Otel
Poems Az
raph PA
Potent Om
Seber c
Selomca
Senta WA
Teape FL
‘GROUND
uARGPORTATION
‘Sete ae er pe
Serato
ettowsnce pete $45.00 $45.00 $3500 $2500
“TRANSPORTATION
ry cot ue ac fe coach tre covet
= ‘Seecey te | Seen ae ‘enemy ae coven are
= Scoony te | Senor fe ‘cer fre ‘coy fe
enone Sodaimlee | S000miee Se eamiee ‘SSecimie

Pu00e03

Remote User

http://dc01fmps4.cityofchicago.
09/17/04 12:09 PM

entation te VANORSBY ADRIENNE

tp imps asotsgo ng #000 mi Detar 1591972 sho mse

( @ Notification Details! 2 & ORACLE

From FERNANDEZ, ELVIA R
To VANORSBY, ADRIENNE. Sent 17-SE1
SuiystParehave Requisition 1636 for USD 0.0 requires your approval

Requisition Summary
Requittion otal 0.00 USO
Amendimento PO # 1777, URS Corporation, CE Senwces for Cental Avenue Viaduct

Description ortho Sao Line aro at Gand Aver, Feral Funded, $000, Move sap fom
Forwarded From FERNANDEZ, ELVIAR

Created By —_-BRACEWELL, JAMES P

Justification

Requisition Lines

“The fst fwe requstton Ines are summanzed below For additonal nformation, cick the View Requisition
Details irk

View Requisiton Detais | Edt Requiston

Line tam Description Suppl S28 ow auantty YO, Line Amount (UBD)

Professional
Sonera
wg Services
+ faCenta keene 0842005 USO 1 ousp 000
fer Gerra'Avenue  SSRPORATION
Rola at Grane

Approval History

Employee ‘Action Date Note

7 VANORSBY, ADRIENNE

6 FERNANDEZ,ELVIAR — Forward «17-SEP-2004

5 QUINONES, GILBERTO Approve -—=—«16-SEP.200¢

4 SOFIVEA, PETEM Forward 14-SEP-2004

3 SOFIYEA, PETEM Submit 14SEP-2008
‘Amed #1 URS Corp CE Central Ave

2 BRACEWELLJAMESP Reserve -AUG2004 Vind $00 Aa nt Proect
‘Amed #1 URS Corp CE Central Ave

1 BRACEWELL JAMES P Submit teAue-2008 Vidi! $000 Ad ub 8 Url Pret

rot oats oT eM
et stseaon fr VANORSBY, ADRIENNE. tip i pt nfo a 8000 Detar n-4561072LAshon fms

a 8 8

aos ‘rr704 207M.
Fe

80 Feo os
‘Themesinom daly ate

‘inte appa te

eR Dna

oes s110 s1000 se00 ss00
— 3300 5200 suo $1000
‘ener $2600 32400 x20 +2000
‘Totten asd tp

ssa90 $4600 4200 000

MBE/WBE Special Conditions

ewsed January 14, 2004 (TA)
TARGET MARKET
NON-CONSTRUCTION SERVICES/GENERAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES
SPECIAL CONDITIONS REGARDING MINORITY
BUSINESS ENTERPRISE AND WOMEN BUSINESS ENTERPRISE COMMITMENT

Policy and Terms

A

It1sthe policy ofthe City of Chicago that Local Businesses certified as Minonty Business Enterprises (MBE)
_and Women Business Enterpnses (WBE) in accordance with secton 2-92-420 et. seq_of the Municipal
CCode of Chicago and Regulatons Governing Cerufication of Minonty and Women-Owned Businesses
and all other regulations promulgated under the aforementioned sectons ofthe Municipal Code shall
have the maximum opportunity to participate fully in the performance of ths agreement. The Chief
Procurement Officer has established a goal of awarding not less than 25% ofthe annwal dollar value
ofall contracts to certified MBEs and 5% of the annual dollar value of all contracts to certified WBES.

The Chief Procurement Officer has implemented the Target Market Program that seeks to award
‘compettively or on a negotated bid process to certified MBEs the established goal of 10% of the
annual dollar value of all contracts and to certified WBES 1% of the annual dollar value of all
‘contracts.

Definitions

A

“Minority Business Enterprise” or “MBE” means a firm awarded certification as a minority owned and
controlled business in accordance with Cty Ordinances and Regulations as longas itis performing in ts
cerfied Area of Specialty

“Women Business Enterprise" or ‘WBE means a firm awarded certficiton as a women owned and
controlled business in accordance with Cty Ordinances and Regulations, as long ass performing in ts
certified Area of Speciality

‘Directory’ means the Directory of Certified ‘Disadvantaged Business Enterprises, “Minonty Business
Enterprises’ and “Women Business Enterprises" maintained and published by the City’s Contract
‘Compliance Administrator The Directory identifies firms that have been certified as MBES and WBEs,
and includes both the date oftheir lastcertfcabon and the area of speciality in which they have been
Certified Contractors are responsible for verifying the current certification status of all proposed MBE
and WBES

Area of Specialty” means the description of a MBE or WBE firm's business wtuch has been determined
by the Chief Procurement Officer to be most reflecive of the MBE or WBE firms daumed specraty or
expertise For the Target Market Program the Area of Specalty 1s synonymous to the designated
commodity area Each letter of certification contains a description of the MBE or WBE firms Area of
Specialty This information i aso contained in the Dwrectory

NOTICE: _ By vitue of certification, the City does not make any representation concerning the
ability of any MBEWBE to perform work within their Area of Specialty. Itis the responsibilty of all
Contractors fo determine the capability and capacity of MBEs and WBEs to satisfactorily perform
the work proposed.

“Target Market Joint Venture” means an assoaabon of two or more MBEs, WBEs, or both MBEs and
WBESall certified by the City of Chicago or whose recernficaton 's pending, to carry out a single business
‘enterprise for profit, and for which purpose they combine ther expertise, property, captal, efforts, sill
and knowledge
‘TARGET MARKET NON-CONSTRUCTION SERVICES/GENERAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MBEWBE COMMITMENT

f

“Contract Compliance Administrator” means the officer appointed pursuant to Section 2-92-490 ofthe
‘Municipal Code of Chicago.

eligibility

A

Contracts included nthe Target Market Program can be ether MBE Target Market Contracts, WBE Target
‘Market Contracts or designated as open to all certfied MBE and WBE firms. Only MBE and MBE Jont
‘Ventures ae ele to bid on o parbapate in MBE Target Market Contracts, while only WBE and WBE
Joint entursare lige to bid on or participate in WBE Target Market Contracts On soltabons open
to both MBES and WBE jomnt ventures ae allowed between both

‘Contracts included in the Target Market Programm have been identified by the Chief Procurement Officer
having at least three MBES or three WEEs, as the case may be, that indicated their interest in
parucipating in the contract's designated commodity areas) by successfully being certified by the City’s
‘Contract Compliance Adminstrator The Chief Procurement Officer shall select contracts forthe Target
Market Program which include a variety of goods and services which the City frequently contrac,

The vendor may not subcontract more than ity percent (50%) of the dollar value of the contract. The
prime Target Market vendor must perform at least 50% of the awarded contract amount with thetr own
‘workforces. Up to 50% of the dollar value ofthe Target Market contract may be subcontracted to firms
who are either MBE's and/or WBE’s or non-MBE’s andlor non- WBE's. The purchase of goods by a
‘VENDOR from a manufacturer or supplier forsale tothe City ina contract consisung solely ofthe sale of
{goods shall nat be deemed subcontracting, However, in appropriate cases the Chief Procurement Officer
‘may ntiate discussions with a contractor subcontracting wth non-certified firms in order to maamize the
‘overall partcpation of MBEs and WBEs a all contracting levels

MBE or WBE firms wall be allowed to particpate in this Target Market Contract only in their Areas of
Specalitys certified, ori recertification was submitted prior to certification expration has been appled
for, and ss pending on the date of bid opening Cerbfication must be substantiated by current
‘erufcation letters ofall MBE and WBE partrpating in the contract being apart of the bid/proposal
response

“The Chief Procurement Officer may make parbaspation inthe Target Market Program dependent upon
‘submission to stncter compliance audits than are generally applicable to partaipants in the MBEWBE
program. Where necessary or useful, the Chief Procurement fice may require or encourage MBES and
WBEs to participate in training programs offered by the Department of Planning and Economic
Development or other City departments or agencies as a condition of participabon in the Target Market
Program.

‘The Chie Procurement Officer shall be authorzed to review whether any MBE or WBE actively volved
in the Target Market Program should be precluded from participation n the Target Market Program inthe
following year to prevent the domination ofthe Target Market Program by a small number of MBES or
WBEs. The decision of the Chief Procurement Oficer to exclude a vendor from the Target Market
Program sfinal and non-appealable. The Chief Procurement Officer shall review the partiapation of any
vendor 1n the Target Market Program which has been awarded as the prime vendor n a calendar year
‘ether, (five (5) or more Target Market Contracts, or (a) Target Market Contracts with a total esumated
value in excess of one milhon dollars ($1,000,000), provided, however, that each contract used inthe
above computation has an estimated value in excess of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) The factors
‘which will be considered by the Chief Procurement Oficer include.

()thetotal number and estimated value of both Target Market and other City contracts awarded to
the contractor,
TARGET MARKET NON-CONSTRUCTION SERVICES/GENERAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MBEWHE COMMITMENT

(i) thetotal number and estimated value of both Target Market and other City contracts awarded to
the contractor in a spectfic commodity area;

Gin) the percentage of the number of both Target Market and other City contracts awarded to the
‘contractor ina specific commodity area;

() the percentage of the total estimated value of both Target Market and other City Contracts
awarded to the contractor in a specific commodity area;

() the extentto which the Vendor is dominating the Target Market Program tothe undue detnment
of other contractors or the City; and

(w) any other factors deemed relevant by the Chief Procurement Officer

IV. Procedure to determine Bid Compliance

A

Schedule D-2

‘Bidders must submit, together with the bid, a completed Schedule D-2 commiting them tothe ublizaton
‘of each listed fier

Schedule C-2

Lette of Intent from Subcontractor, Supplier and/or Consultant to perform. Inthe event the Vendor fails
to submit any Schedule C-2s with its bud/proposal, the City will presume that no subcontractors are
Performing services related to the contract absent evidence tothe contrary

Letters of Certification

copy ofeach proposed MBE firs cument Leter of Craton fromthe Cty of Cheago must be
‘umd wah he be pope Cotes

Joint Venture Agreements

I the biddepropose ont venture, the bidderproposer must pode a copy of the Jon Verture
ageementanda Schedule 8:2 Inorderto demonstrate the MAEAVBE pares share inthe ownership
ad conta the jot venture agreement mux include spec deta related t, (1) contro of
capital and equipment; (2) work resporsibives or ether performance tobe undertaken bythe
IMBE/WBE, and) the comment of management, sperasory and operate personnel employed by
the MBEWGE tobe dedicated tothe perfomance ofthe contract. Te on venture agreement mst
als eal deine each partner’ authort to contractually oat he ont venture and ech partners
Suthory to expend ont venture funds heck sng author)

V. Advances and Expedited Payments

A

‘A vendor bidding on a Target Market Contract may request in ts bid/proposal that it recewve a portion of
the estmated contrac value atthe time of award as an advance to cover star-up and mobilzabon costs,
hich the Chief Procurement Officer may grant in whole or in part. The Chief Procurement Officer wall
‘not accept requests made after bid/proposal opening The Chief Procurement Officer may grant
advances not exceeding the lesser of. (0) ten percent (10%) ofthe estmated contract value; oF (n) two
hundred thousand dollars ($200,000)

‘Advances willbe liquidated, and hence the City will racer a credit for these advances agaist payments
vu.

TARGET MARKET NON-CONSTRUCTION SEEVICESIGENERAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MBE)WRE COMMITMENT

‘due under the contract, commencingat the time ofthe first payment to the contractor after the payment
‘ofthe advance. The City shal be entitled tobe repaid n full no later than such time as the City pays ity
percent (50%) or more of the estimated contract value tothe Contractor, or at the midpoint ofthe inital
contract term

Inthe event vendor does not perform as required by the contract and thus snot entitled to all, or part
ff, any contract advances or expedited payments it has received, the Cy shall be entitled to take
appropriate actions to recover these excessive payments, including, but ot lmted to, liquidation against
‘vouchers for commoditiesservices rendered for other awarded contracts or future bid deposts,resttuton
sought from the performance bond, a determination that the contractor 1s non-responsive, oF
certification. These remedies are in addition to all remedies otherwise available to the City pursuant
the contrat, at law, oF at equity

D. Due to the nature of term agreements (annual contracts with “depends upon requirements" contract
values) there sno guarantee of the contract against which the advance can be measured or liquidated,
‘Therefore, advances will be granted for term agreements based upon reasonable estimates at the
discretion of the Chief Procurement Officer.

Compliance

‘A The Contract Compliance Administrator shall be entitled to examine on five (5) business days nob, the
Contractor's books and records including without limitation payroll records, tax returns and records, and
books of account, to determine whether the contractor 1s in compliance with the requirements of the
Target Market Program and the status of any MBE or WBE performing any portion ofthe contract. Such
rights are n addition to any other audit inspection nghts contained in the contract.

B. Its matensal breach of this contract if the vendor, a joint venturer, or subcontractor is disqualified as a
(MBE or WBE, such status was a factor in contract award, and the status was misrepresented by the
‘contractor or any joint venturer. Such a breach shall entitle the City to dedlare a defauk, terminate the
‘contract and exercise those remedies provided for in the contract, at law or in equity

C._ Inthe event that the vendor 1s determined not to have been involved in any misrepresentaton of the
status of an MBE or WBE, the contractor shall discharge the disqualified MBE or WBE and, if possible,
sdentify and engage a qualified MBE or WBE as ts replacement. Continued eligibility to enter into future
contracting arrangements with the City may be jeopardized as result of non-compliance. Payments due
under the contract may be withheld until corrective action is taken

Resource Agencies
‘Small business guaranteed loans, surety bond guarantees; 8 (a) certification:

USS Small Business Adminstration SBA - Bond Guarantee Program
500 W Madison Street, Suite 1250 Surety Bond
Chicago, lino 60667 '500 West Madison, Suite 1250
‘Attn: General Services Chicago, linoss 60661
(312) 353.4528 ‘Attentvon* Carole Harr

(312) 353-4003

SBA.- Procurement Assstance
500 West Madison Street, Suite 1250

Chicago, tinots 60601

‘Attention Robert P. Murphy, Area Regional Adminstrator
TARGET MARKET NON-CONSTRUCTION SERVICES/GENERAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MBEWBE COMMITMENT
12) 353-7381

Project information and general MBE/WBE Program information

Cty of Chicago {ty of Chicago

‘Department of Procurement Services ‘Department of Procurement Services
Contract Monitoring and Compliance Contract Administration Division
Cty Hall Room 403 ity Hall - Room 403

Chicago, thnots 60602 Chicago, inois 60602

‘Attention: Carnice Carey ‘tention Byron Whitaker

G12) 744-1895, (12) 744-4926

Directory of Cerufied Disadvantaged, Minonty and Women Business Enterprises available n the Bid and Bond
Room, Department of Procurement Services, City Hall, Room 403, Chicago, nots 60602, Monday through
Faday between the hours of 8:40. am to 10:45 am and 12-00 pm to 3.30 pm.

Non Con ew 204
TARGET MARKET
‘SUBCONTRACTOR UTILIZATION REPORT

NOTICE: THIS REPORT IS NOT TO BE COMPLETED AT THE TIME OF BID OR PROPOSAL SUBMISSION. IF
AWARDED A CONTRACT WITH AN APPROVED SUBCONTRACTING PLAN, THE PRIME
‘CONTRACTOR WILL BE REQUIRED TO SUBMIT THIS REPORT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS STATED IN THE SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING

SUBCONTRACTING COMMITMENTS.
Contract Administrator Specification No _
Phone No Contract No
Date of Award:
Ublization Report No
staTeor___

COUNTY (city) OF)
In connection with the above-captioned contract:
| HEREBY DECLARE AND AFFIRM that lam the _

duly authonzed representative of
‘and duty ~ ‘Tea Camp any Pret or Tipe
= a)
TR aa
and thatthe following rms have been contracted with and have fumished, or are fumishing and preparing matenals
for, and rendering services stated i the contact agreement

The following Schedule accurately reflects the value of each sub-agreement and the amounts of money paid to each
todate

NAME INDICATE IF FIRM IS AMOUNT OF AMOUNT PAID TO.
(MBE, WBE OR NON- CONTRACT DATE
MBE OR NON- WBE)

AMOUNT BILLED TOCITY: $.

AMOUNT PAID TO PRIME CONTRACTOR $$
‘TARGET MARKET SUBCONTRACTOR UTILIZATION REPORT.

For each subcontractor sted on this report, brefly describe the work or goods/services provided in relation to this
contract. (indicate line tems, if applicable)

‘DESCRIPTION OF WORK/SERVICES
NAME ANDIOR GOONS PROVIDED

‘TARGET MARKET SUBCONTRACTOR UTILIZATION REPORT

}DO SOLEMNLY DECLARE AND AFFIRM UNDER THE PENALTIES OF PERJURY THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
FOREGOING DOCUMENT ARE TRUE AND CORRECT, AND THAT I AM AUTHORIZED, ON BEHALF OF THE
CONTRACTOR, TO MAKE THIS AFFIDAVIT

Name of Contractor. -

ea TT
Senate Sema ~
Name of Affant, ——
Date: —
State of
County (Cay) of __
‘This instrument was acknowledged before me on _ _— (date)
by rare of persons)
ag type of authonty, e.g, oicer, trustee, etc)
of frame of party on behalf of whom instrument
was executed)

Signature of Notary Puble
(hy of Cngs
ached ML Dae, Mayor
Department
Peet Ses
Bee! Gea

(Ca Pret Oe

(ay Ha, Row a8
{a1 Nat Laat
ua lig ot
Gin reeoee

Giaaesecm

peels ok

Nel pan gGOS

Fecnco dEscoto, President
SEscoto, inc.

1E Ene St, Sto 520
Chicago, lin 60811

Grrerorar
Re 3! ANNIVERSARY CERTIFICATION
Certfcaton Effective ‘August 31, 2004
Cortfeaton Expres ‘March 1, 2007

Annual Affidavit Certificate Expires: March 1, 2005
Dear Mr eEsc0t0

CCongretulatons on your continued egy for certification as a DBE/MBE by the City of,
Chicago. Re-valdaton of dEscoto, Inc's certication 6 requred by March 1, 2005,

[Asa condition of contnued certification dunng ths five year pened, you must continue fo flea
cate of Please note that you must

‘No-Change Affidavit witnn 60 days of the cate of expraton
Include @ copy of your most current Corporate Federal Tax Returns. Fature to fe this
‘Aidit wit eat 2 the lorminabon of your cericaton |

‘You must azo not the Office of Business Development of any changes n ownership or
control of your fm oF any other matiers or foci efectng your fms egy for certification
‘The Cty mey commence actons to remove your fm’ egy i you fal to notify us of any
changes in ownership, management or con, or cthermse fai to Cooperate wih the Cay
fany naury or nvessgaton Removal of ebgbily procedures may aso be commenced your
frm is found tobe involved n bedng or contractual ereguaries

‘Your fms name wil be listed nthe Citys Drecory of Disadvartagod Business Enterprises,
Minonty Busines Ertorprses and Women Business Enterprises in tne specially area(s) of

MBE Certification: Architectural and Professional Engieenng Services;
‘Construction Management; Planning and Surveying
Services

DBE Cortation: Construction Management Planning and Surveying

‘Your rms parcipaton on Cty contracts wil be crodted only toward DBEIMBE goals in your
‘rea(6) of speciay Whe your pariipaton on Cty conracs 1s not kmited io your specialty,
‘edt toward DBE/MBE goals wil be ven any for work done nthe specs category

‘Thank you for your continued interast nthe Gtys Mmorty, Women and Disadvantaged
Business Enterprise Programs

Very uly yours

Thichadh | Metllusr

‘Managing Deputy Procurement Officar
Mui

DeEHost Aver cnerae)

SCHEDULE D-2
Aidavit of Target Market Subcontractors
‘Construction Services\General Equipment and Supplles

‘Contract Name: REO for Profesional Construction Management Consulting Services _

‘Specifleation Now. 18786.

State of iis
‘County (City) of _Cook___
| HEREBY DECLARE AND AFFIRM that |

scot ins,

and that Ihave personally reviewed the material and facts set forth herein describing our proposed plan identlying
fuab-comtractors in this contrat.

‘Al MBE/WBE firms included inthis plan have been certified as such by
‘ttached).

the City of Chiengo (Letters of Certification

L._Diret Pardcipation of Subcontracting Flems

(Nete The biderpopose stl. determining the munner of MBE'WBE paricpaion cn nly consider snavement with
SIREWBE tea jot vere purnersSubsonracng and tapping of good and verve ey Pete othe pearance of
Dvcieat open to MBEWBE and son MBEWBE firs NOTICE: Sbeontractng enact ected $0% of he oa contrat
pane)

A. The MBE andlor WBE Bidder(s ls to attach scopy of City of Cheago Letter of Certification.
B._budderproposer Is joint venture and one or more joint venture partners, they must be certified MBE's or

WA's, attach copies of Letters of Certifeation and copy of Flat Venture Agreement clearly desribing
‘the role ofthe MBBE/WBE firms) and is ownership interest in the jont venture.

© Subcontractors (Diret or lnireet):
1 Name of Subcontractor:__Spaan Technology. Inc ee
Adress Rin 8
Contact Person: Smita N. Shab, EE Phone:__312.277:8900
Dotar Amount of Participation § DUR, up text. 2% of contract value
‘Percent of Participation: __DUR, up io et.20% of contract value. _%

Schedule C2 attached? Yex_X_No_* (ee page 2)
‘Type ot Firm:
pe X _ wBE_X_Non-mwae__
2. Name of Subcontractor:

Address

‘Contact Person: Phone:

Dollar Amount of Participation S
Percent of Participation:
Schedule C2 attached? Yes

‘Type of Fem:
MBE WBE__Non-Muwae__

3. Name of Subcontractor:

Adres:

Contact Person: Phone:

Dollar Amount of Participation §_
Percent of Participation:

Schedule C2 attached? Yew

“Type of Frm:

‘To the best of my knowledge int

ation and belie, the facts and representations contained ln this Schedule are true,
9 material facts have bees omitted

“The contractor designates he following persona thelr MBEWBE, Ofcer:
-lermestertew Fredcica T. dl’ Esecto Prone Number:__312.702,0007

1 do solemnly declare and affirm under penates of perjury that the contents ofthe foregoing document are true and
‘correct and that Iam authorized, on behalf ofthe contractor, (© make this afiavit.

ab GK Gayot

Nam

fetes
county ot Cath
June at 200Y ano

by __—Paderivoveditinente “Tawiec d’Escoko ___(nameis of person/s)
s_Wace. President

‘This instrument was acknowledged before me

type of authority, office, trusts, te.)

of__a’¥soto.tnc,____(aames of party on behalf of whom, instrument

digs Wor de v

was executed)

(Sea

SCRCSEAT
LUZM ALMAGUER
NOTARY PUBL, STATE OF 1LNOIS
iy Commsson Exes May 23,2005 |

Page 3
7
Letter of Intent from Subcontractor, Su

[ane of ProyeevContract Constrction Management Consulng Sernces S886.
Specification Number 87885,
Please check approprate sans of Subcontracting Fema

From. SPAN Technology, In X MBE _X WBE Now Maaaty
‘hanes

To. Esso oe andthe City of Chicago,
eT om BET

‘The undersigned intends to perform work  consecion wat the above project asa
Sele Propnetor -X_Corpornon
—Parmeship reer Vertue
‘The undersigned w prepared to provde the following desrbed services or supply the following desrbed goods 1m
connection with the above-named projectlcontact
Prof

jeional Engineering Services

“The above described performance i offered forthe following pice and desebed tems of peyment
DUR sp to 20% of total value of contract

1 more space 1s needed to fully describe the firm's proposed scope of work andlor payment schedule, atch addstonal
sheet

“The undersigned will enter nto a formal writen agreement for he above work with you as a Prine Contractor, conditioned
‘upon your execution ofa contract with the City af Chicago, and will do so wats (3) tree working day of receipt of &
‘Signed contac from the City of Cheago o

(Sipe feo Ahora

PE President
Se hm

ty of Cheapo
chard Dale, Mayor

epic
racemes Sevens

ed Giggs
Gt Pree er
uy Ha Room 3
TN aS
Ghia lig
pyre
nein)

ap Fe ples ot

NiguBORQoDS

av

‘Seta Shah, President
‘Spaan Tech, Inc.

100 North Riverside Paza, Sute 1750
‘Ghveago, nos 60608

Re 4M ANNIVERSARY CERTIFICATION

CortfeatonEtectve shy 29,2008
Gortteavon Expaes ‘Aigo 2007
ANNUAL Affidavit Certificate Expires: August 1, 2005,

ear Ms Shah

Congratulations on your continued elit for certficaton as @ DBEIMBEMBE by the
City of Chicago Re-valdaton of Spaan Tech, Inc.'s certification 1s requred by August
1.2008.

‘As a condition of continued certiication dung ths five year pero, you must continue to flea
‘No-Chenge Afidawt witnn 60 days of the date of expration Please note that you must
Include a copy of your most current Corporate Federal Tax Returns. Fate to fie ths
Aidavt wil result inthe termination af your certicaton

‘You must also notfy the Office of Business Development of any changes in ownership oF
contra of your frm or anyother matters or facts affectng your fr's ebgiy fr coriheaton
‘The Cty may commence actons to remove your frm's ebabilty you fa to nosy us of any
changes n ownership, management or contro, or otherwise fa to cooperate withthe City in
‘anyingury orinvestgaton Removal of ekpbalty procedures may also be commenced f yout
firms found tobe volved in bidding or contractual wregulriies

‘Your fim’ name willbe Istod im the City’s Drectory of Disadvantaged Business Enterprises,
Minonty Busness Enlorpnses and Women Business Enterprses in the specialy area(e) of

‘Computer Consulting; Program and Facility Management;
Professional Engineering Services
‘Your tims partepation on Cty contacts wil be credited only toward DBEIMBENVBE goets
your area(s) of specialty Whie your partopation on City contracts 1s not mite to your
specially, credit oward DBEIMBE/WBE goals wil be given onl for work dane nthe specialty
category

“Thank you for your continued interest the City's Minny, Women and Disadvantaged
‘Susness Enterpnse Programs

Very truly yours,

Mata}
‘Michael J McMurray 1
i

EXHIBIT 4
Disclosure Affidavit

(Including Disclosure of Retained Parties)

Rensed Janvary 14,2004 (TA)
Alfidavts are atached hereto

‘Under penalty of perjury, lcertify that Lamhe president _____(Title), of ’Escota ne.
and that Iam authonzed by the Consultant to execute this affidavit in Ha Beal, that have personal
knowledge ofthe certifications made inthis affidavit and that there have been no changes and that the

same are tue.

‘Sute of T1inois
County of Cook.

Subscribed and sworn to me before hi
‘9th day of September, 20.04

ctary Pic Share
My Commission Expues

Pre-Qulification Program
Date Approved by Law: August 23, 2008
Approved under Specification No: C925990002

‘Contract Specification No: 187 36
Contract PONO: 58B(p
Requisition No. Jongg

AEEIDAVIT

‘The undersigned certifies thatthe Economic Disclosure Statement And Affidavit which the
CConsultnt completed and executed, as described above, remaun true and accurate mall respects asifthe

stati

Qoa a

Federico J. 4
‘Name (ype or Pant)

scoto

‘recousson ove nn 14208

leon erry uss
|Arrioawr no.

03UL 23 AM 9
M20 AN 306 Oy oe cay

ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT AND AFFIDAVIT

The City of Chicago (the *Cty) requires disclosure of the information requested inthis Economic Disclosure Statement
and Affdaut ("EDS") before any ity agency, department or Cty Council action regarding the matter thats the subject of
‘this EDS Please fully complete each statement, with al information current as ofthe date this EDSis signed. ifa question
‘snot applicable, answer with *N.A.* An incomplete EDS will be returned and any City action will be interrupted.

Please print or type all responses clearly and legibly. Add additonal pages if needed, being careful to identify the portion
‘of the EDS to which each additonal page refers.

WHO MUST SUBMIT AN EDS:

1. Applicants: Any individual or entty the “Applicant? making an application to the City for action requinng City
‘Council or other City agency approval mus fle this EDS.

2. Entities holding an interest in the Applicant: Generally, whenever an ownership interest in the Applicant (for
‘example, shares of stock ofthe Applicant ora limited partnership interest n the Applicants held or owned by a legal
tetaty (for example, a corporation or partnership, rather than an individual) each such legal entty must ko fle an EDS on
its own behal, and any parent ofthat legal entity must do so unt individual owners are disclosed However, ifan entity
filing an EDS 16a corporation whose shares are registered on a national securives exchange pursuant to the Secunibes
Exchange Act of 1934, only those shareholders that own 10% or more of that fling entty’s stock must file EDSs on their
‘own behalf

ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF POSSIBLE CREDIT AND OTHER CHECKS: By completing and fling ths EDS, the
Undersigned acknowledges and agrees, on behalf of itself and the entities or individuals named in this EDS, thatthe City
‘may investigate the credtworthiess of some o all ofthe entities or ndviduab named In this EDS,
(CERTIFYING THIS EDS: Execute the certification onthe date ofthe intial submistion of this EDS. You may be asked to
‘re-ertily this ES on the last page as ofthe date of submission of any related ordinance tothe City Cound ors of
the date of the dosing of your transaction.

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE: itis the City’ policy to make this document available tothe publicon its Internet site and/or
‘upon request.

(GENERAL INFORMATION

‘Date this EDS s completed. _Juty 24, 2003

A Whois submitting this EDS? That ndivdual or entity will be the
““Undersigned” throughout this EDS, _d'Escotos Inc.

Page I of 18
CITY OF CHICAGO ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT AND AFFIDAVIT

NOTE: The Undersigned is the individual or entity submitting this EDS, whether the Undersigned is an Applicant or
is an entity holding an interest in the Applicant. This EDS requires certain disclosures and certifications from
Applicants that are not required from entities holding an interest in the Applicant. When completing this EDS,
please observe whether the section you are completing applies only to Applicants.

td Check here ifthe Undersigned i filing this EDS as an Applicant.

U1 Check here if the Undersigned is filing as an entity holding an interest in an Applicant.

‘Ato, please entify the Applicant in which this entity holds an interest:

Business address
ofthe Undersigned: | Sutte_ 520
‘Chicago, Ti 601
C.—Telephone:312.787.0707__Fax: _312-787.7322 Email:

D. Name of contact person. Federico J. d'Escoto

E—_Taxidentiication number (optional:

F. Bef descnption of contract, transaction or other undertaking (refered to below as
the ‘Matter’ to which this EDS pertains. (Include project number and location if applicable):

Pre-qualiftcation

G. isthe Matter a procurementtX] Yes No

1. faprocurement, specication #6 99(al {71 and Contract #

1. fnota procurement
1 Cay Agency requesong EOS: Procurement Services Departaent
2. Cy action requested (eg loan, grant, sal of property:

3 If property involved, lst property locaton

Page 2 of 18
CITY OF CHICAGO ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT AND AFFIDAVIT

‘SECTION ONE: DISCLOSURE OF OWNERSHIP INTERESTS

1

NATURE OF ENTITY

Indicate whether the Undersigned is an individual or legal entity:

Individual (. Limmted Liabiity Company

Business corporation {1 Joint venture

Sole proprietorship UL Notfor-profit corporation
(isthe not-for-profit corporation also a 501103)?
(Yes No

1. General partnership Other entity (please specify)

[Limited partnership

‘State of incorporation or organization, f applicable _L11inoie

For legal entities not organized inthe State of tino. Is the organtzation authorized to do business inthe Slate of
nor asa foreign entity?

(Yes (No INA

ORGANIZATION INFORMATION

IF THE UNDERSIGNED IS A CORPORATION:
List below the names and ties of all executive officers and all directors of the corporation, For not-for-profit

‘corporations, also ist below any executwve director of the corporation, and indicate all members, if any, who are legal
‘entites. If there are no such members, wnte “no members."

Name

Title
See attached.

ba)

If the Matte is a procurement and the Undersigned is a corporation whose shares are regstered on a national

secunties exchange pursuant othe Securities Exchange Act of 1934, please provde the following information concerning,
shareholders who own shares equal to or in excess of 7.5% ofthe corporation's oustanding shares.

Name

Business Address Percentage Interest
WA

Page 3 of 18
Ownership

cox
3%
CITY OF CHICAGO ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT AND AFFIDAVIT

2). Ifthe Matter is not a procurement, and the Undersigned 1s a corporation whose shares are regstered on a
national secunties exchange pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, please provide the following information
‘concerning shareholders who own shares equal to or in excess of 10% of the corporation's oustanding shares.

Name Business Address . Percentage Interest
N/A

& _Forcorporations that are not registered on a national secures exchange pursuant tothe Secures Exchange Act
(of 1934, st below the name, business address and percentage of ownership interest of each shareholder.

Name Business Address Percentage Interest
See attached.

2. IF THE UNDERSIGNED IS A PARTNERSHIP OR JOINT VENTURE:
For general or ited partnerships or joint ventures: list below the name, business address and percentage of ownership
interest ofeach partner. For imited partnerships indicate whether each partner isa general partner ora limited partner.
Name Business Address Percentage interest

WA

3 IF THE UNDERSIGNED IS A LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY:
2. _Lstbelow the name, business address and percentage of ownership interest of each () member and (i) manager.
If there are no managers, write no managers, and indicate how the company 1s managed.

Name Business Address Percentage interest
NA.

Page 4 of 18
CITY OF CHICAGO ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT AND AFFIDAVIT
b. List below the names and ties ofall officers, f any. If there are no oficers, write ‘no officers.”

Name Tide
WA

4, IF THE UNDERSIGNED IS A LAND TRUST, BUSINESS TRUST, ESTATE OR OTHER SIMILAR ENTITY.
& _Listbelow the name and business address ofeach individual or legal entity holding egaltite tothe property thats
the subject ofthe trust.

Name Business Address
N/A

b. _Listbelow the name, business address and percentage of beneficial interest ofeach beneficiary on whose behalf

ttle shel.

Name Business Address Percentage Interest

——_HA

5. IF THE UNDERSIGNED IS ANY OTHER LEGAL ENTITY, fist descnbe the enty, then prowde the name, business
address, and the percentage of interest of al individuals or legal entities having an ownership or other beneficial interest in
the entty.

Describe the entity
N/A

Name Business Address Percentage Interest

Page 5 of 18
CITY OF CHICAGO ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT AND AFFIDAVIT:

‘A. DEFINITIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENT

1. The Undersigned must indicate whether t had a "business relationship* with a City elected official in the 12
‘months before the date this EDS is signed.

2. Pursuant to Chapter 2-156 of the Municipal Code of Chicago the “Municipal Code”), a "business relationship"
means any ‘contractual or other private business dealing” of an official, or his or her spouse, or of any entity in which an
official or his or her spouse has a “financial interest," with a person or entity which entitles an official to compensation oF
payment nthe amount of $2,500 or more ina calendar year; butafinancal interes” doesnot include: () any ownership
through purchase at fair market value or nhentance of less than 1% ofthe shares of a corporation, or any corporate
subsidiary, parent or affilate thereof, regardles of the value of or dividends on such shares if such shares are registered
(ona securities exchange pursuant to the Secuntes Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (i) the authorized compensation
paid to an oficial or employee for his ofice or employment; in) any economic benefit provided equally o al residents of
the City, (va time or demand depost in a financial insttubon; or (v) an endowment or insurance policy or annuity
‘contract purchased from an insurance company. A “contractual or other private business dealing’ does not include any
employment relationship of an offcias spouse with an entity when such spouse has no discretion concemung or input
relating tothe relationship between that entity and the City.

B. CERTIFICATION
1. Hasthe Undersigned had a “business relationship" with any City elected oficial in the 12 months before the date
this EDS is signed?

tyes KINo

Ityes, please identfy below the namels of such City elected official) and describe such relationshy

‘SECTION THREE: DISCLOSURE OF RETAINED PARTIES
‘A. DEFINITIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS

1 The Undersigned must disclose certain information about attorneys, lobbysts, accountants, consukants,
subcontractors, and any other person whom the Undersigned has retained or expects to retain in connection with the
Matter. In partcular, the Undersigned must dscose the name of each such person, his/her business address, the nature
ofthe relationship, and the total amount of the fees paid or estimated to be pad. The Undersigned snot required to
disclose employees who are paid solely through the Undersgneds regular payroll

“Lobbyist’ means any person (i) who, for compensation or on behalf of any person other than himself, undertakes to

inuence any legate or adore acon, of) any pat f whose day as an employee of another nudes
Undertaking fhucnce or esate of admmsveove aoe

Page 6 of 18
CITY OF CHICAGO ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT AND AFFIDAVIT

2. Ifthe Undersigned is uncertain whether a disclosures required under this Section, the Undersigned must ether
ask the City whether disclosure is required or make the disclosure.

8. CERTIFICATION
Each and every attorney, lobbyist, accountant, consultant, subcontractor, or other person retained or anticipated to be

retained directly by the Undersigned with respect to or in connection withthe Matter is listed below (begin lsthere, add
sheets as necessary].

[Name (indicate Business Relationship to Undersigned Fees (indicate whether
whether tained Address (attorney, lobbyist, etc) pad or estmated)
‘or antcpated to be retained)

[BF Cieacnene iF NO SUCH NDMIDUALS HAVE BEEN RETAINED BY THE UNDERSIGNED OR ARE ANTICIPATED TO BE RETAINED BY
THE UNDERSIGNED.

‘SECTION FOUR: CERTIFICATIONS
|. CERTIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE

For purposes of the certifications in A, 8, and C below, the term “affiliate” means any individual or entity that, directly or
‘indirectly: controls the Undersigned, is controlled by the Undersigned, or is, with the Undersigned, under common
Control of another individual or entty India of control include, without limitation: interlocking management or
‘ownership; denbty of interests among family members; shared facilities and equipment; common use of employees; or
organization ofa business entity following the inelipbilty ofa business entty to do business withthe federal govemment
Cra state oF focal government, including the City using substantially the same management, ownership, or principals as
the inelpble entity.

‘A. The Undersgned is not delinquentn the payment of any tax administered bythe lino Department of Revenue,
‘nor are the Undersigned or its afilates delinquent in paying ay fine, fee, tax or other charge owed to the City. This
includes all water charges, sewer charges, hcense fees, parking tickets, property taxes or sales taxes. Ifthere are any such
delinquencies, note them below:

None.

Ifthe letters“NA* the word “None,” or no response appears on the lines above t wall be conclusively presumed that the
Undersigned certified to the above statements.

Page 7 of 18
CITY OF CHICAGO ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT AND AFFIDAVIT

8. The Undersigned and its affiliates have not, in the past five years, been found in violation of any City, state or
federal environmental law or regulation. If there have been any such violations, note them below:

None.

{the letters “NA,” the word “None,” of no response appears on the lines above, itwill be conclusively presumed thatthe
Undersigned certified to the above statements.

CC. _ Ifthe Undersigned isthe Applicant, the Undersigned and its affiliates wil not use, nor permit their subcontractors
to use, any facity on the U.S. EPAS Lis of Violating Facilites in connecton with the Matter forthe duration of time that
such facility remains on the lst.

D. __ Ifthe Undersigned isthe Applicant, the Undersigned will obtain from any contractory/subcontractors hired or to
be hired in connection with the Matter certifications equal inform and substance to those in Section Four, I,(A-C) above
and wil not, without the prior wntten consent of the Cty, use any such contractorsubcontractor that does not prove
‘such certifications or that the Undersigned has reason to believe has not prowded or cannot provide truthful certifications.

{the Undersigned ts unable to make the cerifications requued in Section Four, paragraph | (C) and (D) above, provide
‘an explanation:

Ifthe leters “NA,” the word “None,” oF no response appears onthe lines above twill be conclusively presumed thatthe
‘Undersigned certified to the above statements.

4, = CERTIEN T
COMPLIANCE

For purposes ofthis part, "Substantial Owner’ means any individual who, directly or indirectly, owns or holds a 10% or

‘more interest n the Undersigned. Note: This may include inddualscsclosed m Section One (Disclosure of Ownership
Icerests, and indluals disclosed in an EDS filed by an entty holding an interest inthe Applicant

If the Undersigned’s response below is #1 or #2, then all ofthe Undersigned’s Substantial Owners must remain in
compliance with any such child support obligations until the Matter 1s completed. Failure of the Undersigned’s
Substantial Owners to remain in compliance with ther child support obigatons in the manner set forth in either #1 or
#2 constitutes an event of default.

Check one:

_21_1 No Substantial Owner has been declared 1n arrearage on any child support obligations by the Circutt Court of
ook County, llinois or by another Ilinass court of competent junscicton

Page 8 of 18
CITY OF CHICAGO ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT AND AFFIDAVIT

2. The Circuit Court of Cook County, itinois or another lilinois court of competent jurisdiction has issued an order
declaring one or more Substantial Owners in arrearage on child support obligations. ll such Substantial Owners,
however, have entered into cour-approved agreements forthe payment of all such child support owed, and all
such Substantual Owners are in compliance with such agreements.

___ 3. The Cireuit Cour of Cook County, tlinois or another nos court of competent jurisdiction has issued an order
declaring one or more Substantial Owners in arrearage on child support obligations and (a) atleast one such
Substantial Owner has not entered into a court-approved agreement for the payment of all such child support
‘owed; oF (b) atleast one such Substantial Owner is notin compliance with a court-approved agreement for the
payment of al such child support owed; or both (a) and (b).

4. There are no Substantial Owners
1M, EURTHER CERTIFICATIONS

‘A. The Undersigned and, ifthe Undersigned is a egal entity, ts prinopal (officers, directors, partners, members,
managers, execute director):

1

are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared inelgible or voluntarily
‘excluded from any transacbons by any federal, state or local unit of government,

hhave nt, within five-year period preceding the date ofthis EDS, been convicted ofa cnminal offense,
adjudged gully, or had a cml judgment rendered agunst them in connecton wth: obtaning atten
to obtain, or performing @ public federal, sate or loca) transaction or contract under a public
transaction; a violation of federal or state antitrust statutes; fraud; embezzlement; theft; forgery, bribery;
falsiicauon or destruction of records; makng false statements; or receiving stolen propery;

are not presently indicted for or otherwise crimunaly or civilly charged by a governmental entity federal,
state oF local) with commission of any ofthe offenses enumerated in clause (A)2) ofthis section;

hhave not, within a five-year period preceding the date of this EDS, had one or more public transactions
(federal, sate or local terminated for cause or default; and

have not, within a five-year period preceding the date ofthis EDS, been convicted, adjudged guity, oF
found liable a civil proceeding, in any criminal or crvil acon instituted by the City or by the federal
government, any state, or any other unit of local government.

B. The certifications in subparts B and D concern:

the Undersigned,
any party partcpating in the performance of the Matter Can Applicable Party);

any Afliated Entity” (meaning an individual or entity that, directly or ndiecty- conto the Undersigned, 5
‘controlled by the Undersigned, ors, with the Undersigned, under common control of another individual or
entity. Indica of control include, without limtabon. interlocking management or ownership; dentty of
Interests among family members, shared facies and equipment; common use of employees or organization
‘of a business enuty flowing the meligibity ofa business eny to do business wth federal or state or local
‘government, including the City, using Substanbaly the same management, ownership, or pnncipals a the
ineligible ent), with respect to Applicable Parties the term Afiiated Entity means an individual or entity
that directly o¢ indirectly control the Applicable Paty, 1s controlled by tor, wth the Applicable Party, 1s
Under common control of another individual or entity,

Page 9 of 18
CITY OF CHICAGO ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT AND AFFIDAVIT

‘+ any responsible oficial ofthe Undersigned, any Applicable Paty or any Afiated Enaty or any other oficial,
agent or employee ofthe Undersigned, any Applicable Party or any Affiliated Entity, acting pursuant tothe
direction or authorization of a responsible offical of the Undersigned, any Applicable Party or any Affiliated
Entity (collectively “Agents”

[Neither the Undersgned, nor any Applicable Party, nor any Afiliated Enity of erher the Undersigned or any
‘Applicable Party nor any Agents have, during the five years before the date this EDS is signed, or, wth respect to
‘an Applicable Party, an Affliated Entity, or an Afiiated Entty ofan Applicable Party during the five years before
the date of such Applicable Party's or Afliated Entity contractor engagement in connection with the Matter:

1. bribed or attempted to bnbe, or been convicted or adjudged guity of bribery or attempting to bribe, a
public oficer or employee ofthe Cty the State of ilinois, or any agency of the federal goverment or of
‘any state or local government in the United States of America, in that officers or employee's offical
‘capacity;

2. agreed or colluded with other bidders or prospective bidders, or been a party to any such agreement, oF
been convicted or adjudged guiky of agreement or collusion among bidders or prospective bidders, im
restraint of freedom of competion by agreement to bid a fixed price or otherwise; oF

3. made an admission of such conduct described in (1) oF (2) above that isa matter of record, but have not
‘been prosecuted for such conduct; or

4. wrolated the provisions of Section 2-92-610 of the Municipal Code (Living Wage Ordinance).

C._The Undersigned understands and shall comply with (1) the applicable requirements of the Covernmental Ethics
‘Ordinance ofthe City, Tile 2, Chapter 2-156 of the Municipal Code; and (2 all the applicable provsions of
‘Chapter 2-56 of the Municipal Code (Office of the Inspector General).

D. Nether the Underigned, Afiiated Entity or Applicable Party, of any oftheir employees, ofc, agents or
partner is barred from contracting with any unio ate or local government as a est of engaging ino being
‘Convicted of (1) bd-iaging in volaton of 720 ILCS 5/33E-3; (2) bd-otatng in vioation of 720 LCS 5/33E-4; or
6) any similar offense of any tate oF ofthe United States of America that contains the same elements asthe
ofense of bd ging oF bidrtating

E.__Ifthe Undersigned s unable to certify to any ofthe above statements in this Part, the Undersgned must explain
below:

Ifthe letters “NA,” the word “None,” oF no response appears onthe lines above, willbe conclusively presumed thatthe
LUndersigned cerified to the above statements.

Page 10 of 18
CITY OF CHICAGO ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT AND AFFIDAVIT
1V. CERTIFICATION OF STATUS AS FINANCIAL INSTITUTION.

For purposes of ths Prt V, under Secton 2-32-455(b) ofthe Municipal Code, the term nancial isituvon” means
bank, savings and loan assocauon, tht, credit union, morgage banker, mortgage broker, trust company savings bank,
investment bank, securtes broker, municipal secunties broker, securities dealer, municipal securities dealer, securities
Lnderwnter, municipal secures underwnter,invesment tt, venture eapital company, bank holding company,
financial services holding company, or any licensee under the Consumer Installment Loan Ac the Sales Finance Agency
Act or the Residential Morgage Licensing Act. However, nancal instution” specifically shall not include any entity
‘whose predominant busines the providing of tax deferred, defined contibuton, pension plans to public employeesin
accordance with Sections 403(t) and 457 ofthe Interal Revenue Code. [Addltional defniuons may be found in Section
2-32-455(b) ofthe Municipal Code.}

A. CERTIFICATION
The Undenigned cee thtthe Undenigned check onl
ine
2 nancalnuton a defined in Section 2 32-455) fhe Muicipl Coe.
3. ifthe Undesigned 8 2 fianclinstitution then the Undersgned pledges:

“We are not and will not become a predatory lender as defined in Chapter 2-32 of the Municipal Code.
‘We further pledge that none of our afilates 1s, and none of them wall become, a predatory lender as
defined in Chapter 2-32 of the Municipal Code. We understand that becoming a predatory lender or
becoming an affiliate ofa predatory lender may result in the los ofthe prilege of doing business with
the City”

If the Undersigned 1s unable to make this pledge because it or any of its affllates (as defined in Section 2-32-
-455(b) of the Municipal Code) 1s predatory lender within the meaning of Chapter 2-32 ofthe Municipal Code,
‘explain here attach additonal pages if necessary}:

Ifthe eters “NA,” the word “None,” oro response appears on the lines above, willbe concluswely presumed thatthe
Undersgned certified to the above statements

V. CERTIFICATION REGARDING INTEREST IN CITY BUSINESS

‘Any words or terms that are defined in Chapter 2-156 ofthe Municipal Code have the same meanings when used in this
Part V.

1. Imaccordance wth Section 2-156-110 of the Municipal Code.
‘Does any oficial or employee ofthe City havea financial interest in his or her own name or inthe name of any
‘other person inthe Matter?
tyes kkNo

Page 11 of 18
CITY OF CHICAGO ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT AND AFFIDAVIT

NOTE: Ifyou answered “No” to Item V(1), you are not required to answer Items V(2) oF (3) below. Instead, review
the certification in Item (4) and then proceed to Part VI. If you answered “Yes” to Item V(1), you must first
‘respond to Item V(2) and provide the information requested in Item V(3). After responding to those items, review
the certification in Item V(4) and proceed to Part VI.

2. Unless sold pursuant to a process of competitive bidding, no Cty elected ofical or employee shal have a
‘nancial interest is or her own name orin the nameof any other person inthe purchase of any property that
(0 belongs to the City, oF i is sold for taxes or assesment, oi is sld by virtue of legal proces atthe suit of
the Ciy (ellecoely, "City Property Sale’. Compensation for property taken pursuant to the Citys eminent
domain power does not constitute a financial interest within the meaning ofthis Part V.

Does the Matter involve a City Property Sale?
tyes No

3. youanswered 'yesto tem V(t), provide the names and business addresses ofthe City officials or employees
having such interest and identify the nature of such interest:

Name Business Address "Nature of Interest

4. The Undersigned further certifies that no prohibited financial interest in the Matter will be acquired by any City
official or employee.

Vi. CERTIFICATION REGARDING SLAVERY ERA BUSINESS

‘The Undersigned has searched any and all records ofthe Undersigned and any and all predecessor entities for records of
investments or profits from slavery, the slave industry, or slaveholder insurance polices from the slavery era (including
insurance policies isued to slaveholders that provded coverage for damage to or injury or death oftheir slaves) and has
<dsclosed in this EDS any and all such records tothe City. In addition, the Undersigned must disclose the names of any
and all saves or slaveholders described m those records. Failure to comply with these disclosure requirements may make
the Matter to which this EDS pertains voidable by the City.

Please check either (1) or (2) below. Ifthe Undersigned checks (2), the Undersigned must disclose below or in an
attachment to this EDS all requisite information as set forth in that paragraph (2).

_X_1. The Undersgned verifies that a the Undesigned has searched any and all records ofthe Undersigned and any
3ndall predecesorenies fr records of investments or profits from avery, the slave indus, or saveholder surance
policies, and () the Undersigned has found no records of investment oF profits from slavery, the slave industry, o¢
slaveholder insurance polices and no records of rames of any slaves or slaveholes,

Page 12 of 18
CITY OF CHICAGO ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT AND AFFIDAVIT

___2. The Undersgned verifies that, asa result of conducting the search instep (1(a) above, the Undersigned has found
‘Tecords relating to investments or profits from slavery, the slave industry, or slaveholder insurance policies and/or the
names of any slaves or slaveholders. The Undersigned venties thatthe following constitutes full disclosure of all such
records

‘A. ist below the names of al individuals registered under the federal Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 who have
made lobbying contacts on behalf of the Undersigned with respect to the Matter: (Begin Ist here, add sheets as
necessary

{1¥no explanation appears or begins on the lines above, or ifthe letters "NA*o ifthe word “None” appear, itwill be
thatthe Undersigned means that NO individuals registered under the Lobbying Disclosure
‘Act of 1995 have made lobbying contacts on behalf ofthe Undersigned with respect to the Mater.)

8. The Undersigned has ot spent and will not expend any federally appropriated funds to pay any individual sted
1m Paragraph (A) above for his or her lobbying activities or to pay any individual to mluence or attempt to influence an
officer or employee of any agency, as defined by applicable federal law, a member of Congress, an ofcer or employee of
‘Congress, or an employee of a member of Congress, in connection withthe award of any federally funded contract,
making any federally funded grantor loan, entering into any cooperative agreement, orto extend, continue, renew,
amend, or modify any federally funded contract, grant, oan, or cooperative agreement.

C The Undersignd wall submit an updated certification a the end of each calendar quarter in which there occurs
any event that matenally affects the accuracy ofthe statements and information set fr n paragraphs (A) and 8) above.

Iv the Matter is federally funded and any funds other than federally appropriated funds have been or will be paid to.
any indindual or nluencing or attempting to ifluence an officer or employee of any agency (as defined by
applicable federal law), a member of Congres, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a member of
Congress in connection with the Matter, the Undersgned must complete and submit Standard Form-LL, "Daclosure
Form to Report Lobbying" n accordance with is insructons. The form may be obtained online from the federal
(Office of Management and Budget (OMB) web site at hep /hvww. whitehouse govlombigransslin pd, linked on the
page hup www whitehouse govlomblgrantsprants forms bin!

D The Undersgned cerafes that ether () ts not an organization descnbed in section 501(0K4) ofthe Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, or (i) ts an organization descnbed in section 501(c4) ofthe Internal Revenue Code of 1986

‘but has not engaged and will not engage in “Lobbying Actives

Page 13 of 18
CITY OF CHICAGO ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT AND AFFIDAVIT

E.__Ifthe Undersigned i the Applicant, the Undersigned must obtain certifications equal in frm and substance 19
‘paragraphs (A) through (0) above from al subcontractors before it awards any subcontract nd the Undersigned must
‘maintain ll such subcontractor certifications forthe duration of the Matter and must make such ceafications promptly
available tothe City upon request.

|, CERTIFICATION REGARDING NONSEGREGATED FACILITIES

‘A. Ifthe Undersigned isthe Applicant, the Undersigned does not and will nt maintain or provide for its employees
any segregated facilites at any of its establishments, and it does not and will not permit its employees to perform their
services at any location under its control where segregated facilities are maintained,

‘Segregated facilities," as used in this provision, means any wating rooms, work areas, restrooms, washrooms,
restaurants and other eating areas, time clocks, locker rooms and other storage or dressing areas, parking ios, dking,
‘fountains, recreation or entertainment areas, transportation, and housing provided for employees, that are segregated by
explict directive or ae in fact segregated on the bass of race, color, religion, Sex, or national origin because of habit local
‘or employee custom, or otherwise.

However, separated o single-user restrooms and necessary dressing or sleeping areas must be provided to assure privacy
between the sexes

8. Ifthe Undersigned s the Applicant andthe Matter 1s federally funded, the Undersigned wil, before the award of
subcontracts if any), obtain identical certificatons from proposed subcontractors under which the subcontractor wil be
subject tothe Equal Opportunity Clause Contracts and subcontracts exceeding $10,000, or having an aggregate value
‘exceeding $10,000 in any 12-month period, ae generally subject to the Equal Opportunty Clause. See 41 CFR Part 60
for further information regarding the Equal Opportunity Clause. The Undersigned must retain the certifications required
by this paragraph (B) for the duration ofthe contract (if any) and must make such certifications promptly available tothe

Cty upon request

C.__Hfthe Undersigned i the Applicant and the Matter i federally funded, the Applicant will orward the notice set
forth below to proposed subcontractors:

NOTICE TO PROSPECTIVE SUBCONTRACTORS OF REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTIFICATIONS OF
NONSEGREGATED FACILITIES

‘Subcontractors must submit to the Contractor a Certification of Nonsegregated Facilities before the award of any
subcontract under which the subcontractor will be subject to the federal Equal Opportunity Clause. The
subcontractor may submit such cerpfiations ether for each subcontractor for al subcontracts dunng a period
(eg, quartery, semannually, or annually)

IML, CERTIFICATION REGARDING EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY

Federal regulations require prospective contractors for federally funded Matters (¢g., the Applicant) and proposed
“subcontractors to submit the following information with therr bids orn writing at the outset of negotiations (NOTE: This
Part Ills to be completed only ifthe Undersigned is the Applicant.)

‘A. Have you developed and do you have on file affirmative action programs pursuant to applicable federal

favne tee CFR Pan 0-2)
Bre 11Ne INA

Page 14 of 18
CITY OF CHICAGO ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT AND AFFIDAVIT

8 Have ou ppt in any pews contractor sontac set the equal opportnty dase?
ies TINA

Have you filed with the Joint Reporing Committee, the Director of the Office of Federal Contract Compliance
Programs, or the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission all reports due under the applicable filing,
requirements?

Yes L1No NA

The Cys Governmental Ethics and Campaign Financing Ordinances, Chapters 2-156 and 2-164 ofthe Municpal Code,
impose cetam duties and obligations on individuals or entities seeking City contracts, work, busines, or wansactions.
The Board of Ethics has developed an ethics airing program for such indlwduals and entities. The fl text ofthese
‘ordinances and the taming program is avaliable online at woe. ctyofcucago.om/Edwcd, and may abo be obtained fom
the Cys Board of Ethics, 740 N. Sedgack St, Site 500, Chicago,IL 60610, (312) 744-9660. The following is
<escripove only and does not purport to caver every aspect of Chapters 2-156 and 2-164 ofthe Municipal Code. The
Undenigned must comply fuly with the applicable ordinances.

Sl BY CHECKING THIS BOX THE UNDERSIGNED ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE UNDERSIGNED
UNDERSTANDS THAT THE CITY’ GOVERNMENTAL ETHICS AND CAMPAIGN FINANCING ORDINANCES,
[AMONG OTHER THINGS:

1) Provide that any contract negotiated, entered into or performed in wolabon ofthe Citys ethics laws can
bbe voided by the City.

2) Lirutthe gts and favors any individual or entity can give, offer to ge, to any Cty oficial employee,
contractor or candidate for elected City offce or the spouse or minor chu of any of them, including:

any cash gift or any anonymous git; and
b. any git based on a mutual understanding thatthe City offiaas or employee's or City
contractor's actions or decisions wil be influenced in any way by the git.
3) Prohibit any City elected official or City employee from having. financial interest, directly or indirectly, in
any contract, work, transaction or business ofthe City if that interest has a cost or present value of
‘$5,000 or more, ofthat interest entitles the owner to receive more than $2,500 per year.

4) Prohibit any appointed City offical from engaging in any contrat, work, transaction or business of the
ity, unless the matter is wholly unrelated to the appointed official's duties or responsiblities.

5) Provide that City employees and officials, or thew spouses or minor children, cannot receve
‘compensation or anything of value in return for advice or asstance on matters concering the operation
‘or business ofthe City, unless ther senaces are wholy unrelated to thew City duties and responsible.

6) Provide that former City employees and officals cannot, for a penod of one year ater there Cty

employment ceases, assist or represent another on any matter involving the City if, while with the Cty,
they were personally and substanually involved in the same matter

Page 15 of 18
CITY OF CHICAGO ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT AND AFFIDAVIT

7) Prowide that former City employees and officials cannot ever assist or represent another on a City contract
+f, while withthe City, they were personally involved in or directly supervised the formulation, negobation
‘oF execution ofthat contract.

The Undersigned understands and agrees that:

A. The certifications, disclosures, and acknowledgments contained in thes EDS will become part of any contract or
other agreement between the Applicant and the City in connection with the Matter, whether procurement, City
sistance, or other City action, and are matenal inducements to te City's executon of any contractor taking other acbon
with respect to the Matter. The Undersigned understands that it must comply with all statutes, ordinances, and
regulations on which this EDS is based.

B. Ifthe City determines that any information provided inthis EDS is false, incomplete or inaccurate, any contract or
‘other agreement in connection with which iis submitted may be rescinded or be void or voidable, and the City may
[pursue any remedies under the contractor agreement ifnot rescinded, void or voidable), at law, or in equity, including
terminating the Undersigned’ participation in the Matter and/or deciningto allow the Undersigned to participate in other
transactions wath the City.

C. Some oral ofthe information provided on ths EDS and any attachments to this EDS may be made available to
the publicon the internet, in response to a Freedom of Information Act request, oF otherwise. By completing and signing
this EDS, the Undersigned waives and releases any possible rights or claims which st may have against the Cty in
‘connection with the public release of information contained inthis EDS and also authorizes the Cyto verify the accuracy
‘of any information submitted i this EDS.

D The Undersigned has not withheld or reserved any disclosures as to economic interests inthe Undersigned, oF as
to the Matter, or any information, data or plan as to the intended use or purpose for which the Applicant seeks City
‘Council or other City agency action.

E.__The information provided in thas EDS must be kept current. In the event of changes, the Undersigned must
‘supplement thes EDS up to the tne the City takes action on the Matter.

Page 16 of 18
CITY OF CHICAGO ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT AND AFFIDAVIT

(CERTIFICATION

Under penalty f perjury the person signing below: (1 warans that he/she authorized fo exe this EDSon behalf of
the Undersigned, and (2) warrants that all certifications and statements contained in this EDS are true, accurate and
complete a ofthe date foished tothe Ciy

A'Escoto, Ine Date: ZS/e3.
a oT TS RT ESET

‘Subscribed to before me on {datel. 26 ama, at__Cook County,
Titimais (state

Page 17 of 18
RETURN THIS “DISCLOSURE OF RETAINED PARTIES”
FORM WITHIN 7 CALENDAR DAYS OF CITY NOTIFICATION
DISCLOSURE OF RETAINED PARTIES

‘A Definitions and Disclosure Requirements

1, Asused herein, “Contactor” means a person or eaty who has any contac or lease with the City of
Chicago the “City?

2 Pursuant o Executive Order 97-1 ever city contract and lease rust be accompanied by a disclosure
Statement providing cern information about attorneys, lobbyists, accountants, consultants, subcontractors, and
‘ther perms whom the Contractor has retained or expects tetas with respect othe coatracto ese. Ta
paructlar, tbe Contacte must disclose the nme ofeach sch person, hs or her busines addres, the nature of the
{elationship, and the amount of fex paid or estimated tobe pai. The Contractor i ot required to dacone
‘employees who ae paid solely through the Contractor's gular payroll

3 sLobbyist" means any person (a) who for compensation of on behalf of any person other han himself
‘adertakes 0 fluence any legislative or administrative action, or (9) any part of whose duties as an employee of
‘nother mclades undertaking fo influence any legislative o administrative schon,

BCerticntion

Contractor hereby emis as follows:
1, This Diselosure relates othe fowng transaction.

Specieanonooterwemiying umber: _[ 8 794d
‘Desenption of goods or services to be provided under Contract. Vooge csssastei CM CONsutrTinug

RELATIONSHIP FEES (indicate
BUSINESS (atiomey, lobby, whether paid or
NAME ‘ADDRESS cumated)

(CHECK HERE IF NO SUCH PERSONS HAVE BEEN RETAINED OR ARE ANTICIPATED TO
BERETAINED ___
4. The Contractor understands and agrees as follows:

1. The information provided herein 1s « matenal inducement tothe City's execution of
the contractor other action with respect to which this Disclosure of Retained Parties form is being
executed, and the City may rely onthe information provided herein. Furthermore, ifthe City
determines that any information provided herein is false, incomplete, or inaccurate, the City may
terminate the contractor other transaction, terminate the Contractor's participation inthe contract
‘or other transaction, and/or decline to allow the Contractor to participate in ober contacts oF
transactions wath the City.

». Ifthe Contractor is uncertain whether a disclosure is required under the Executive
‘Order, the Contractor must either ak the Contract Adminstrator or his or her manager whether
sisclosure 8 required or make the disclosure.

«Ths Disclosure of Retained Parties form, some or all of the information provided
‘heren, and any attachments may be made available tothe public on the Internet, in response to a
Freedom of Information Act request, or otherwise. The Contractor waives and releases any
possible rights or clams st may have against the City n connection withthe public release of
information contained inthe completed Disclosure of Retained Parties form and any attachments.

‘Under penalty of perjury, I certify that I am authonzed to execute this Disclosure of
Retained Parties on behalf ofthe Contractor and thatthe information disclosed herein is true and
complet.

_Davier d Escote Lice Prentnt
Name (ope orp) ie
Sacred and sworn to before me

‘ayo kine 2004

EXHIBITS
‘Chicago of Water Management Security

‘Rensed January 14,2004 (TA)
Chicago Department of Water Security

(®)__Forporposes ofthis Section “employee” refers to any individual employed or engaged by
Consultant or by any Subconsultant. I the Consultant, oF any employee, inthe performance of
this Contract, has or will have access toa Chicago Department of Water (CDOW) facility, the
City may conduct such background and employment checks, including criminal history checks
and work permit documentation, as the Commissioner and the City may deem necessary, on the
Consultant, any Subconsultant, or any oftheir respective employees. The Commissioner has the
right to require the Consultant to supply or provide access to any additional information the
‘Commissioner deems relevant. Before beginning work onthe projec, Consultant must:

(@ __ provide the City with alist ofall employees requiring access to enable the City to
‘conduct such background and employment checks;
Gi) deliver tothe City consent forms signed by all employees who will work on the
‘project consenting to the City’s and the Consultant's performance of the background checks in
(iil) detiver tothe City consent forms signed by all employees who will require access
to the CDOW facility consenting to the searches described in this Section.

(©) The Commissioner may preclude Consultant, any Subconsultant, o any employee from
performing on the project. Further, the Consultant must immediately report aay information to
the Commissioner relating to any threat to CDOW infrastructure or facilities or the water supply
of the City and must fully cooperate with the City and all governmental entities investigating the
threat. The Consultant must, not withstanding anything contained inthis Agreement to the
Contrary, at no additional cost to the City, adhere, and cause its Subconsultants to adhere, to any
security and safety guidelines developed by the City and furnished to the Consultant from time to
time during the Term of the Agreement and any extensions of it.

(©)__ Each employee whom Consultant wishes to have access to a CDOW facility must submit,
‘signed, completed “Area Access Application” to the CDOW to receive a CDOW Security
‘Badge. If Consultant wishes a vehicle to have access to a CDOW ficilty, Consultant niust
submit a vehicle access application for that vehicle. The applications will solicit such
information as the Commissioner's discretion may require including, name address, date of birth,
social security number (and for vehicles: make, model, driver’s license number, vehicle license
plate number, and appropriate stickers). The Consultant is responsible for requesting and
‘completing these forms for cach employee who will be working at CDOW facilites and all
vehicles to be used on a CDOW facility. The Commissioner may grant or deny the application at
the Commissioner's sole discretion. The Consultant must make available to the Commissioner,
within one business day of the request, the personnel fie of any employee who will be working.
‘nthe project.

(©) __Atthe Commissioner's request, the Consultant and Subconsultant must maintain an
‘employment history of employees going back five years from the date Consultant began Work or
Services on the project. If requested, Consultant must certify that it has venfied the employment,
history as required on the form designated by the Commissioner. Consultant must provide the

City, at its request, a copy ofthe employment history for each employee. Employment history is
subject to audit by the City.

(© CDOW Sccutity Badges and Vehicle Permits will only be issued based upon properly
‘completed Area Access Application Forms. Employees or vehicles without proper credentials
will nt be allowed on CDOW property

(® The following rules related to Security Badges and Vehicle Permits must be adhered to:

(© Bach employee must wear and display the CDOW Security Badge isued to that
employee on ter outer apparel at all ines,

(G)___-Atthe ste discretion ofthe Commissioner and law enforcement officials,
including but ot limited to the Chicago Plice Department, Cook County Sheri_ts Office,
Mlnois State Police or any other municipal, state o federal law enforcement agency, all vehicles
(and their contents are subject to interioc and/or exterior inspection entering or exiting CDOW
facilites, and all employees an oer individuals entering or exiting COW faites are
subject to searches, Vehcles may not contain any materials ouber than those needed forthe
project. The Commissioner may deny acess to any vehicle o individual atthe Commissioner's
Eole discretion

(Gi) All individuals operating a vehicle on CDOW property must be familiar and
comply with motor driving regelations and procedures ofthe State of ints andthe City of
‘Chicago. The operator must bein possession of valid, state issued Motor Vehicle Operator's
Drivers License.

(i) All equred City stickers and State Vehice Inspection stickers must be vali

(v)___ Individuals must remain within therr assigned area unless otherwise instructed by
‘he Commissioner or the City. :

(g) _Access to the CDOW property will be determined by the Commissioner. The
‘Commissioner may deny access when, at the Commissioner's sole discretion, the vehicle or
individual poses some security risk to CDOW.

(%) Unauthorized hazardous or illegal material, including but not limited to hazardous
‘materials as defined in 49 CFR Parts 100-185 (e.g, explosives, oxidizers, radiological materials,
infectious materials), contraband, firearms and other weapons, illegal drugs and drug
paraphernalia, may not be taken on CDCOW property. Alcoholic beverages are also prohibited.

(qm) All employees and vehicles working with CDOW facilities must be properly identified.
All vehicle passes will be issued to the Consultant by the Commissioner, a8 required. Consultant,
Subconsultant, and employees must return identification material to the Commissioner upon
‘completion of their respective work within the project, and in all cases, the Consultant must
return all identification material to the Commissioner after completion ofthe project. Final
Payment will not be made until all passes issued have been returned to CDOW Security.

