Contract Summary Sheet

Contract (PO) Number: 6122
Specification Number: 829189802

[Name of Contractor: THE BEITLER COMPANY
City Department: PLANNING & DEVELOPMENT
Project Manager: RASHONDA BARKSDALE

Title of Contract: B29189802-Planning Now Services Category 1 (A, B, C & F) Category 2 (A,
B,C & D) Category 6 (C & B)

‘Term of Contract: Start Date: 5/1/04
End Date: 4/30/07

Dollar Amount of Contract (or maximum compensation if a Term Agreement) (DUR):
'$7,800,000.00

Brief Description of Work: B29189802-Planning Now Services Category 1 (A, B, C & F)
Category 2 (A, B, C & D) Category 6 (C & E)

Procurement Services Contact Person: JAMISE PERKINS

‘Vendor Number: 50073961
Submission Date:

an 3 4 2008
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT

BETWEEN

THE CITY OF CHICAGO
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT

AND

BIETLER COMPANY

Real Estate nancial Ani
Project Development and Management

Retention and Attraction of Manufacturing Compani

RICHARD M. DALEY
MAYOR
‘TERMS AND CONDITIONS...

ARTICLE 1.
1

au
212

ARTICLE 3.

ARTICLE 5.

ARTICLE 6.
61
62

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT
‘TABLE OF CONTENTS

DEFINITIONS.

Interpretation... :
Incorporation of Exhibits.
DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF CONSULTANT...

‘TERM OF PERFORMANCE...
Term of Performance.
Timeliness of Performance

Agreement Extension Option.

COMPENSATION
Basis of Payment.
Method of Payment.
Funding enon
‘Non-Appropriation.

DISPUTES..

COMPLIANCE WITH ALL LAWS ..
‘Compliance with All Laws Generally
Nondiscrimination...

65 Business Relationships with Elected Officials.
66 Chicago “Living Wage” Ordinance
67 Deemed Inclusion

ARTICLE 7. SPECIAL CONDITIONS...
7.1 Warranties and Representatio
72 Ethics.
73 Joint and Several Liability
74 Business Documents,
75 Conflicts of Interest.
76 Non-Liabilty of Public Official.

ARTICLE 8, EVENTS OF DEFAULT, REMEDIES, TERMINATION, SUSPENSION AND
RIGHT TO OFFSET...
8.1 Events of Default Defined...
82 Si o
83
84

ARTICLES.
91

(b) NoCollateral Agreements
(©) No Omissions.

ARTICLE 11, AUTHORITY.

‘SIGNATURE PAGE.

ex

List of Exhibits

‘Scope of Services and Time Limits for Performance
‘Schedule of Compensation

Economic Disclosure Statement and Affidavit

Insurance Requirements and Evidence of Insurance

Key Personnel

Special Conditions Regarding Minority Business Enterprise Commitment and
‘Women Business Enterprise Commitment
AGREEMENT

This Agreement is entered into as ofthe I" day of May, 2004, by and between Bietler
Company, (‘Consultant’), and the City of Chicago, a municipal corporation and home rule unit
‘of local government existing under the Constitution ofthe State of Tinos, acting through its
Department of Planning and Development ("City") at Chicago, Ilinois

‘The City and Consultant agree as follows:

‘TERMS AND CONDITIONS

ARTICLE 1. DEFINITIONS.
11 Definitions

‘The following words and phrases have the following meanings for purposes of this
‘Agreement:

"Additional Services" means those services which are within the general scope of
‘Services of this Agreement, but beyond the description of services required under Section 2.
and all services reasonably necessary to complete the Additional Services tothe standards of
performance required by this Agreement. Any Additional Services requested by the Department
require the approval of the Cty in a written amendment under Section 9.3 ofthis Agreement
before Consultant is obligated to perform those Additional Services and before the City becomes
obligated to pay for those Additional Services.

“Agreement” means this Professional Services Agreement, including all exhibits attached
to it and incorporated in it by reference, and all amendments, modifications or revisions made in
accordance with its terms,

"Chief Procurement Officer” means the Chief Procurement Officer ofthe City of
(Chicago and any representative duly authorized in writing to act on his bebalf.

“Commissioner” means the Commissioner of the Department of Planning and
‘Development, and any representative authorized in writing to act on the Commissioner's behalf.

"Department" means the City of Chicago Department of Planning.
"Services" means, collectively, the services, duties and responsibilities described in

‘Article 2 and Exhibit 1 of this Agreement and any and all work necessary to complete them or
‘cary them out fully and to the standard of performance required in this Agreement
"Subcontractor" means any person or entity with whom Consultant contracts to provide
any part ofthe Services, including subcontractors and subconsultants of any ter, suppliers and
materials providers, whether or notin privity with Consultant.

12 Interpretation

(@) The term "include" (in all its forms) means "include, without limitation” unless
the context clearly states otherwise.

(b) _Allrreferences inthis Agreement to Articles, Sections or Exhibits, unless
‘otherwise expressed or indicated are to the Articles, Sections or Exhibits of this Agreement.

(©) _ Words importing persons include firms, associations, partnerships, truss,
corporations and other legal entities, including public bodies, as well as natural persons

(@ Any headings preceding the text ofthe Articles and Sections of this Agreement,
and any table of contents or marginal notes appended to it, are solely for convenience or
reference and do not constitute a part ofthis Agreement, nor do they affect the meaning,
‘construction or effect of this Agreement.

(©) Words importing the singular include the plural and vice versa. Words of the
‘masculine gender include the correlative words ofthe feminine and neuter genders.

(0) Allreferences to a number of days mean calendar days, unless indicated
otherwise
1.3 Incorporation of Exhibits
‘The following attached Exhibits are made a pat of this Agreement:

Exhibit 1 Scope of Services and Time Limits for Performance

Exhibit2 Schedule of Compensation

Exhibit3 Economic Disclosure Statement and Affidavit

Exhibit4 Insurance Requirements and Evidence of Insurance

ExhibitS Key Personnel

Exhibit 6. Special Conditions Regarding Minority Business Enterprise
Commitment and Women Business Enterprise Commitment

ARTICLE 2. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF CONSULTANT
21 Scope of Services

‘This description of Services is intended to be general in nature and is neither a complete
description of Consultant's Services nora limitation on the Services that Consultant isto provide

een 2
under this Agreement. Consultant must provide the Services in accordance withthe standards of
performance set forth in Section 2.3. The Services that Consultant must provide include, but are
‘not limited to, those described in Exhibit 1, Scope of Services and Time Limits for Performance,
which is atached to this Agreement and incorporated by reference as if fully set forth here.

22 Deliverables

In carrying out its Services, Consultant must prepare or provide to the City various
Deliverables. "Deliverables" include work product, such as written reviews, recommendations,
reports and analyses, produced by Consultant forthe City.

‘The City may reject Deliverables that do not include relevant information or data, or do
not include all documents or other materials specified in this Agreement or reasonably necessary
forthe purpose for which the City made this Agreement or for which the City intends to use the
Deliverables. Ifthe City determines that Consultant has failed to comply with the foregoing
standards, it has 30 days from the discovery to notify Consultant of is failure. If Consultant does
‘ot correct the failure, if is possible to do so, within 30 days after receipt of notice from the
City specifying the failure, then the City, by writen notice, may treat the failure as a default of
this Agreement under Section 8.1

Partial or incomplete Deliverables may be accepted for review only when required for a
specific and well-defined purpose for the benefit ofthe City and when consented to in advance
by the City. Such Deliverables will not be considered as satisfying the requirements of this,
“Agreement and partial or incomplete Deliverables in no way relieve Consultant of its
‘commitments under this Agreement.

23. Standard of Performance

Consultant must perform all Services required of it under this Agreement with that degree
of skill, care and diligence normally shown by a consultant performing services of a scope and
purpose and magnitude comparable withthe nature of the Services to be provided under this
Agreement. Consultant acknowledges tha itis entrusted with or has access to valuable and
‘confidential information and records of the City and with respect to that information, Consultant
agrees to be held tothe standard of care ofa fiduciary.

Consultant must assure that ll Services that require the exercise of professional skills or
judgment are accomplished by professionals qualified and competent in the applicable discipline
‘and appropriately licensed, if required by law. Consultant must provide copies of any such
licenses. Consultant remains responsible for the professional and technical accuracy of all
Services or Deliverables furmished, whether by Consultant or its Subcontractors or others on its
‘behalf. All Deliverables must be prepared in a form and content satisfactory to the Department
‘and delivered ina timely manner consistent with the requirements ofthis Agreement.
If Consultant fails to comply with the foregoing standards, Consultant must perform
‘again, at its own expense, all Services required to be re-performed as a director indirect result of
that failure. Any review, approval, acceptance or payment for any ofthe Services by the
<does not relieve Consultant ofits responsibilty for the professional skill and care and technical
accuracy ofits Services and Deliverables. This provision in no way limits the City’s rights
against Consultant either under this Agreement, at law or in equity.

24 Personnel
(@) Adequate Staffing

Consultant must, upon receiving a fully executed copy of this Agreement, assign and
‘maintain during the term of this Agreement and any extension of it an adequate staff of
‘competent personne! that is fully equipped, licensed as appropriate available as needed, qualified
and assigned exclusively to perform the Services. Consultant must include among its staff the
Key Personnel and positions as identified below. The level of staffing may be revised from time
to time by notice in writing from Consultant tothe City and with written consent of the City,
Which consent the City will not withhold unreasonably. Ifthe City fails to object tothe revision
within 14 days after receiving the notice, then the revision will be considered accepted by the City

(®) Key Personnel

Consultant must not reassign or replace Key Personnel without the written consent ofthe
City, which consent the City will not unreasonably withhold, "Key Personnel” means those job
titles and the persons assigned to those positions in accordance with the provisions ofthis
Section 2.4(6). The Department may at any time in writing notify Consultant that the City will
‘no longer accept performance of Services under this Agreement by one or more Key Personnel
listed. Upon that notice Consultant must immediately suspend the services of the key person or
persons and must replace him or them in accordance with the terms ofthis Agreement. Key
Personnel, if any, are identified in Exhibit 5.

(©) Salaries and Wages

Consultant and Subcontractors must pay all salaries and wages due all employees
performing Services under this Agreement unconditionally and atleast once a month without
‘deduction or rebate on any account, except only for those payroll deductions that are mandatory
bby law or are permitted under applicable law and regulations. If in the performance of this
‘Agreement Consultant underpays any such salaries or wages, the Comptroller for the City may
‘withhold, out of payments due to Consultant, an amount sufficient to pay to employees underpaid
the difference between the salaries or wages required to be paid under this Agreement and the
salaries or wages actually paid these employees for the total number of hours worked. The
amounts withheld may be disbursed by the Comptroller for and on account of Consultant to the
respective employees to whom they are due. The partes acknowledge that this Section 2.4(c) is
solely for the benefit ofthe City and that it does not grant any third party beneficiary rights.

owe 4
2.5 Minority and Women's Business Enterprises Commitment

In the performance of this Agreement, including the procurement and lease of materials
‘or equipment, Consultant must abide by the minority and women's business enterprise
‘commitment requirements of the Municipal Code of Chicago, ch. 2-92, Sections 2-92-420 er seg.
(1990), except to the extent waived by the Chief Procurement Officer and the Special Conditions
Regarding M/WBE Commitment set forth in Exhibit 6. Consultants completed Schedules C-1
‘and D-1 in Exhibit 6, evidencing its compliance with this requirement, are a part ofthis
‘Agreement, upon acceptance by the Chief Procurement Officer. Consultant must utilize
‘minority and women's business enterprises atthe greater of the amounts listed in those Schedules
(C-1 and D-1 or the percentages listed in them as applied to all payments received from the City.

26 Insurance

‘Consultant must provide and maintain at Consultant's own expense, during the term of this
Agreement and any time period following expiration if Consultant is required to return and perform.

‘any of the Services or Additional Services under this Agreement, the insurance coverages and
requirements specified in Exhibit 4 of this Agreement, insuring all operations related to this >
Agreement,

2.7 Indemnification
(@) Consultant must defend, indemnify, keep and hold harmless the City, its officers,
representatives, elected and appointed officials, agents and employees from and against any and all
Losses, including those related to:
@ injury, death or damage of or to any person or property;

Gi)__any infringement or violation of any property right (including any patent,
trademark or copyright);

Gil) Consultant's failure to perform or cause to be performed Consultant's
covenants and obligations as and when required under this Agreement, including
Consultant's failure to perform its obligations to any Subcontractor;

(iv) the City’s exercise of its rights and remedies under Section 8.2 of this
‘Agreement; and

(¥) injuries to or death of any employee of Consultant or any Subcontractor under
‘any workers compensation statue.

(©) “Losses” means, individually and collectively, liabilities of every kind, including
losses, damages and reasonable costs, payments and expenses (such as, but not limited to,court costs ~

oe 5
and reasonable attomeys fees and disbursements), claims, demands, ations, suits, proceedings,
judgments or settlements, any or all of which n any way arise out of or relate to Consultan’ breach
ofthis Agreement orto Consultant's negligent or otherwise wrongfl acts or omission or those ofits
officers, agents, employees, consultants, Subcontractors of licensees

(©) _Atthe City Corporation Counsel's option, Consultant must defend all suits brought
‘upon all such Losses and must pay all costs and expenses incidental to them, but the City has the
right, at its option, to participate, at its own cost, in the defense of any suit, without relieving
Consultant of any ofits obligations under this Agreement. Any settlement must be made only with
the prior written consent ofthe City Corporation Counsel, i the settlement requires any action on the
part of the City

(@ _Totheextent permissible by law, Consultant waives any limits othe amount ofits
obligations to indemnify, defend or contribute to any sums due under any Losses, including any
claim by any employee of Consultant that may be subject tothe Workers Compensation Act, 820
LCS 30/1 e seg. or any other elated law or judicial decision (such as, Koteckiv. Cylops Welding
Corporation, 146 l24 155 (1991). The City, however, doesnot waive any limitations may have
on its liability under the Ilinois Workers Compensation Act, the Hlinois Pension Code, any otber
statute or judicial decision,

(©) The ndemnities inthis section survive expiration or termination of this Agreement
for matters occurring or arising during the term of this Agreement or as the result of or during
Consultant's performance of Services beyond the term. Consultant acknowledges that the
requirements set fort in ths section to indemnify, Keep and save harmless and defend the City are
spar from and not imited bythe Consultant's duties under this Agreement, including the insurance
requirements in Exhibit 4 ofthis Agreement.

28 — Ownership of Documents

All Deliverables, data, findings or information in any form prepared, assembled or
‘encountered by or provided to Consultant under this Agreement are propery ofthe City, including,
as futher described in Section 2.9 below, all copyrights inherent in them or their preparation.
During performance of its Services, Consultant is responsible for any loss or damage to the
Deliverables, dats, findings or information while in Consultant's or any Subcontractors possession.
‘Any such lost or damaged Deliverables, data, findings or information must be restored athe expense
of Consultant, If not restorable, Consultant must bear the cost of replacement and of any loss
suffered by the City on account ofthe destruction, as provided in Section 2.7.

29 Copyright Ownership
Consultant and the City intend that, to the extent permitted by law, the Deliverables to be
produced by Consultant at the City's instance and expense under this Agreement are conclusively

‘deemed "works made for hire” within the meaning and purview of Section 101 ofthe United States
Copyright Act, 17 U.S.C. §101 ef seq., and that the City will be the sole copyright owner of the

ean 6
Deliverables and of all aspects, elements and components of them in which copyright can subsist,
‘and of all rights to apply for copyright registration or prosecute any claim of infringement.

To the extent that any Deliverable doesnot qualify asa "work made for hire,” Consultant
Dereby ievocaby grants, conveys, bargains, sll, assigns, transfers and delivers to the City, its
successors and assigns allright, ttle and interest in and tothe copyrights and all U.S. and foreign
copyright registrations, copyright applications and copyright renewals for them, and other intangible,
intellectual property embodied in or pertaining tothe Deliverables prepared forthe City under this
‘Agreement, and all goodwill relating to them, fee and clear of any liens, claims or other
encumbrances, tothe fullest extent permitted by law. Consultant will, and will cause all of is
Subcontractors, employees, agents and other persons within its convo execute all documents and
perform al cts thatthe City may reasonably request inorder to asist the ity in perfecting its ight
in and tothe copyrights relating othe Deliverables, atthe sole expense of the City. Consultant
‘warrants to the City its successors and assigns, that on the date of transfer Consultant isthe lawful
‘owner of good and marketable tile in and tothe copyrights for the Deliverables and has the legal
rights to fully assign them. Consultant further warrants that it has not assigned and will not assign
any copyrights and that thas not ranted and will not gant any licenses, exclusive or nonexclusive,
to any other party, and that it is not a party to any other agreements or subject to any other
restrictions wth respect to the Deliverables. Consultant warrants thatthe Deliverables are complet,
catire and comprehensive, and thatthe Deliverables constitute « work of orginal authorship.

2.10 Records and Audits
(@) Records

(Consultant must deliver or cause to be delivered to the City all documents,
including all Deliverables prepared forthe City under the terms of this Agreement, o the
City promptly in accordance with the time limits prescribed in this Agreement, andifo time
limits specified, then upon reasonable demand fr them or upon termination or completion
‘ofthe Services under this Agreement. In the event of the failure by Consultant to make such
delivery upon demand, then and in that event, Consultant mast pay tothe City any damages
the City may sustain by reason of Consultant’ failure.

Gi) Consultant must maintain any such records including Deliverables not
delivered tothe City or demanded by the City for period of S years after the final payment
‘made in connection with this Agreement. Consultant must not dispose of such documents
following the expiration of this period without notification of and written approval from the
City in accordance with Article 10.

(0) Audits
(Consultant and any of Consultant's Subcontractors must furnish the

Department with all information that may be requested pertaining to the performance and
cost of the Services. Consultant must maintain records showing actual time devoted and

en 7
costs incurred. Consultant must keep books, documents, paper, records and accounts in
‘connection with the Services open to audi, inspection, copying, abstracting and transcription
and must make these records available to the City and any other interested governmental
agency, at reasonable times during the performance of ts Services.

Gi) To the extent that Consultant conducts any business operations separate and
apart from the Services required under this Agreement using, for example, personnel,
equipment, supplies or facilites also used in connection with this Agreement, then
Consultant must maintain and make similarly available to the City detailed records
supporting Consultant's allocation to this Agreement ofthe costs and expenses attributable to
any such shared usages.

Consultant must maintain its books, records, documents and other evidence
and adopt accounting procedures and practices sufficient to reflect properly all costs of
whatever nature claimed to have been incurred and anticipated to be incurred for or in
connection withthe performance ofthis Agreement. This system of accounting must be in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and practices, consistently applied
‘throughout.

Gv) Noprovision in this Agreement granting the City a right of access to records
and documents is intended to impair, limit or affect any right of access to such records and
documents which the City would have lad in the absence of such provisions.

(¥) The City may in its sole discretion audit the records of Consultant or its
‘Subcontractors, or both, at any time during the term of this Agreement or within five years
after the Agreement ends, in connection with the goods, work, or services provided under
this Agreement. Each calendar year or partial calendar year is considered an “audited
period." If, as a result of such an audit, itis determined that Consultant or any of its
‘Subcontractors has overcharged the City in the audited period, the City will notify
Consultant. Consultant must then promptly reimburse the City for any amounts the City has
paid Consultant due to the overcharges and also some or all of the cost of the audit, as
follows:

‘A. Ifthe audit has revealed overcharges to the City representing less than,
5% of the total value, based on the Agreement prices, ofthe goods,
‘work, or services provided in the audited period, then the Consultant
‘must reimburse the City for S0% of the cost ofthe audit and 50% of
the cost of each subsequent audit thatthe City conducts;

If, however, the audit has revealed overcharges to the City
representing 5% or more of the total value, based on the Agreement
prices, ofthe goods, work, or services provided in the audited period,
then Consultant must reimburse the City for the ful cost ofthe audit
and of each subsequent audit.
Failure of Consultant to reimburse the City in accordance with Section A
or B above is an event of default under Section 8.1 ofthis Agreement, and Consultant will be
Tiable for all ofthe City's costs of collection, including any court costs and attorneys’ fees.

211 Confidentiality

(2) All Deliverables and reports, data, findings or information in any form prepared,
assembled or encountered by or provided by Consultant under this Agreement are propery ofthe
City and are confidential, excep as specifically authorized in this Agreement or as may be required
by law. Consultant must not allow the Deliverables tobe made available to any other individual or
organization without the prior written consent of the City. Further, all documents and other
information provided to Consultant by the City are confidential and must not be made availabe to
any other individual o organization without the prior written consent of the City. Consultant must
implement such measures as may be necessary to ensure thet its staff and its Subcontractors are
bound by the confidentiality provisions in this Agreement.

(b) Consultant must not issue any publicity news releases or grant press interviews, and
‘except as may be required by law during or after the performance of this Agreement, disseminate any
information regarding its Services or the project to which the Services pertain without the prior ~
‘written consent of the Commissioner.

(©) __IfConsultan is presented with arequest for documents by any administrative agency
for with a subpoena duces tecum regarding any records, data or documents which may be in
‘Consultant's possession by reason ofthis Agreement, Consultant must immediately give notice tothe
‘Commissioner and the Corporation Counsel forthe City with the understanding that the City will
have the opportunity to contest such process by any means available toit before the records, data or
documents are submitted to a cour or other third party. Consultant, however, is not obligated to
withhold the delivery beyond the time ordered by the court or administrative agency, unless the
‘subpoena or request is quashed or the time to produce is otherwise extended.

2.12 Assignments and Subcontracts

Consultant must not assign, delegate or otherwise transfer all or any part of its rights or
‘obligations under this Agreement or any part of i, unless otherwise provided for inthis Agreement
‘or without the express written consent of the Chief Procurement Officer and the Department. The
absence of such a provision or written consent voids te attempted assignment, delegation or transfer
and is of no effect as to the Services or this Agreement. No approvals given by the Chief
Procurement Officer operate to relieve Consultant of any of its obligations or liabilities under this
Agreement.

All subcontracts and all approvals of Subcontractors ae, regardless of their form, considered

conditioned upon performance by the Subcontractor in accordance with the terms and conditions of
this Agreement. If any Subcontractor fils to observe or perform the terms and conditions of this

pony 9
Agreement to the satisfaction of the Department, the City has the absolute right upon written
notification to immediately rescind approval and to require the performance of this Agreement by
Consultant personally or through any other City-approved Subcontractor. Any approval forthe use
cof Subcontractors in the performance of the Services under this Agreement under no circumstances
‘operates to relieve Consultant of any of its obligations or liabilities under this Agreement.

Consultant, upon entering into any agreement with a Subcontractor, must furnish upon
request of the Chief Procurement Officer or the Department a copy of its agreement. All
‘subcontracts must contain provisions that require the Services be performed in strict accordance with
the requirements ofthis Agreement, provide that the Subcontractors are subject to all the terms of
this Agreement and are subject tothe approval ofthe Department and the Chief Procurement Officer.
Ifthe agreements do not prejudice any ofthe City's rights under this Agreement, such agreements
‘may contain different provisions than are provided in this Agreement with respect to extensions of
schedule, time of completion, payments, guarantees and matiers not affecting the quality of the
Services.

Consultant must not transfer or assign any funds or claims due orto become due under this
Agreement without the prior written approval of the Chief Procurement Officer. The attempted
‘transferor assignment of any funds, either in whole or in pat, or any interest in them, which are due
fr to become due to Consultant under this Agreement, without such prior written approval, has no
effect upon the City.

‘Under the Municipal Code of Chicago, ch. 2-92, Section 2-92-245, the Chief Procurement
Officer may make direct payments to Subcontractors for Services performed under this Agreement.
‘Any such payment has the same effect as ifthe City had paid Consultant that amount directly, Such
‘payment by the City to Consultant's Subcontractor under no circumstances operates to relieve
Consultant of any ofits obligations or liabilities under this Agreement. This section is solely forthe
benefit ofthe City and does not grant any third party beneficiary rights,

‘The City reserves the right to assign or otherwise transfer all or any part ofits interests under
this Agreement to any successor.

ARTICLE 3. TERM OF PERFORMANCE.

3.1 Termof Performance

This Agreement takes effect a ofthe date inthe preamble ("Effective Date”) and continues
‘until April 30, 2007 or until this Agreement is terminated in accordance with its terms, whichever
‘occurs first.

32 Timeliness of Performance

(@) Consultant must provide the Services and Deliverables within the term and within the

oma 10
‘time limits required under this Agreement, pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.1 and Exhibit 1.
Further, Consultant acknowledges that TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE and that the failure of
‘Consultant to comply with the time limits described in this Section 3.2 may result in economic
‘or other losses to the City.

(b) Neither Consultant nor Consultant’s agents, employees or Subcontractors are entitled
to any damages from the City, nor is any party entitled to be reimbursed by the City, for damages,
charges or other losses or expenses incurred by Consultant by reason of delays or hindrances in the
performance of the Services, whether or not caused by the City

33 Agreement Extension Option

‘The Chief Procurement Officer may at any time before this Agreement expires elect to extend
this Agreement for up to 2 additional periods, under the same terms and conditions as this original
‘Agreement, by notice in writing to Consultant.

ARTICLE 4. COMPENSATION

41 Basis of Payment

The City will pay Consultant according to the Schedule of Compensation in the attached
Exhibit2 for the successful completion of the Services.

42 Method of Payment

‘Consultant must submit monthly invoices (in triplicate) tothe City for labor and other direct
costs as billed, as outlined in the Schedule of Compensation in Exhibit 2. The invoices must be in
such detail asthe City requests. The City will process payment within 60 days after receipt of
invoices and all supporting documentation necessary for the City to verify the Services provided
under this Agreement.

43° Funding

‘The source of funds for payments under this Agreement are Fund numbers 067-08-2505-
(0140-0140-2505 and other funds as may be appropristed. Payments under this Agreement must not
‘exceed $2,600,000 annually for Category 1, Category 2 and Category 6, including any extension
options without a written amendment in accordance with Section 9.3.

44 Non-Appropriation

|f no funds or insufficient funds are appropriated and budgeted in any fiscal period of the City

for payments to be made under this Agreement, then the City will notify Consultant in writing ofthat
‘occurrence, and this Agreement will terminate on the earlier ofthe last day ofthe fiscal period for

pee) n
‘Which suficient appropriation was made or whenever the funds appropriated for payment under this
‘Agreement are exhausted. Payments for Services completed tothe date of notification will be made
‘to Consultant except that no payments will be made or due to Consultant under this Agreement
beyond those amounts appropriated and budgeted by the City to fund peyments under this
Agreement.

ARTICLE 5. DISPUTES

Except as otherwise provided inthis Agreement, Consultant must andthe City may bring any
<ispute arising under this Agreement which snot resolved by the partes to the Chief Procurement
Officer for decision based upon the written submissions ofthe partes. (A copy ofthe "Regulations
ofthe Department of Procurement Services for Resolution of Disputes between Consultants and the
City of Chicago" is available in City Hall, 121 N. LaSalle Street, Room 301, Bid and Bond Room
Chicago, Ilnois 60602). The Chief Procurement wil issue a written decision and send i to the
Consultant by mail. The decision of the Chief Procurement Officer is final and binding. The sole
and exclusive remedy to challenge the decision ofthe Chief Procurement Officers judicial review
bby means of a common law writ of certiorari,

ARTICLE 6. COMPLIANCE WITH ALL LAWS
6.1 Compliance with All Laws Generally

(@) Contractor must observe and comply with all applicable federal, state, county and
‘municipal laws, statutes, ordinances and executive orders, in effect now or later and whether or not
they appear inthis Agreement, including those set forth inthis Article 6, and Contractor must pay all
taxes and obtain al licenses, certificates and other authorizations required by them. Contractor must
require all Subcontractors to do so, also. Further, Contractor must execute and must eause any
‘Subcontractors to execute an Economic Disclosure Statement and Affidavit "Disclosure Affidavit")
inthe form attached to this Agreement as Exhibit3. Notwithstanding acceptance by the City ofthe
Disclosure Affidavit, failure ofthe Disclosure Affidavit to include all information required under the
‘Municipal Code renders this Agreement voidable atthe option of the City

(b) Notwithstanding anything inthis Agreement tothe contrary references toa statute or
law are considered to bea reference to (i) the statute or law as it may be amended from time to time;
i) all regulations and rules pertaining to or promulgated pursuant tothe statute or law; and (ii) all
future statutes, laws, regulations, rules and executive orders pertaining tothe same or similar subject
matter.

ea 2
62 Nondiserimination
(@ Consultant

{In performing its Services under this Agreement, Consultant must comply with applicable

laws prohibiting discrimination against individuals and groups.

(Federal Requirements

unlawful employment practices, such as (1) failing or refusing to hire or discharging any
individual, or otherwise discriminating against any individual with respect to compensation
or the terms, conditions, or privileges of the individual's employment, because of the
individual's race, color, religion, sex, age, handicap/disability or national origin; or (2)
limiting, segregating or classifying Consultant's employees or applicants for employment in
any way that would deprive or tend to deprive ay individual of employment opportunities or
otherwise adversely affect the individuals status as an employee, because of te individual's
race, color, religion, ex, age, handicap/sability or national origin.

Consultant must comply with, and the procedures Consultant utilizes and the Services
Consultant provides under this Agreement must comply with the Civil Rights Act of 1964,
42 U.S.C. sec, 2000e et seq. (1981), as amended and the Civil Rights Act of 1991, P.L. 102-
166. Attention is called to: Exec. Order No. 11246, 30 Fed. Reg. 12,319(1965), reprinted in
42 US.C. 20006 note, as amended by Exec. Order No. 11375, 32 Fed. Reg. 14,303 (1967)
and by Exec. Order No, 12086, 43 Fed, Reg. 46,501 (1978); Age Discrimination Act, 42
US.C.$§6101-6106 (1981), Age Discrimination in Employment Act, 29 U.S.C. 8621-34;
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 U.S.C. §§ 793-794 (1981); Americans with Disabilities Act,
42 US.C. §12101 et seq.; 41 C-F.R. Part 60 et seq. (1990); and all other applicable federal
statutes, regulations and other laws.

Gi) State Requirements

Consultant must comply with andthe procedures Consultant utilizes and the Services
‘Consultant provides under this Agreement must comply with, the Ilinois Human Rights Act,
‘TIS TLCS 5/1-101 et seq. (1990), as amended and any rules and regulations promulgated in
accordance with it, including the Equal Employment Opportunity Clause, 44 Ill, Admin.
Code § 750 Appendix A. Furthermore, Consultant must comply with the Public Works
Employment Diserimination Act, 775 ILCS 1010.01 er seg. (1990), as amended, and all other
applicable state statutes, regulations and other laws.

Gi) City Requirements
Consultant must comply with andthe procedures Consultant utilizes and the Services|
Consultant provides under this Agreement must comply with, the Chicago Human Rights

13
Ordinance, ch. 2-160, Section 2-160-010 et seq. ofthe Municipal Code of Chicago (1990), as
amended, and all other applicable City ordinances and rules. Further, Consultant must furnish
and must cause each of its Subcontractor(s) to furnish such reports and information as
requested by the Chicago Commission on Human Relations.

(®) Subcontractors

Consultant must incorporate al ofthis Section 6.2by reference inall agreements entered nto
‘with any suppliers of materials, furnisher of services, Subcontractors of any tier, and labor
organizations that fumish skilled unskilled and craft union skilled labor, or that may provide any
such material, labor or services in connection with this Agreement.

63 Inspector General

Itis the duty of any bidder, proposer or Consultant, all Subcontractors, every applicant for
certification of eligibility for a City contractor program, and all offices, directors, agents, partners
‘and employees of any bidder, proposer, Consultant, Subcontractor or such applicant to
‘with the Inspector General in any investigation or hearing undertaken pursuant to Chapter 2-56 of the
‘Municipal Code of Chicago. Consultant understands and will abide by all provisions of Chapter 2-
‘56 of the Municipal Code of Chicago. All subcontracts must inform Subcontractors ofthe provision
and require understanding and compliance with it.

64 MacBride Ordinance

The City of Chicago through the passage of the MacBride Principles Ordinance seeks to
promote fair and equal employment opportunities and labor practices for religious minorities in
‘Northem Ireland and provide a better working environment forall citizens in Northera Ireland.

In accordance with Section 2-92-580 of the Municipal Code of the City of Chicago, ifthe
primary contractor conducts any business operations in Northern Ireland, the contractor must make
all reasonable and good faith efforts to conduct any business operations in Northem Ireland in
accordance with the MacBride Principles for Northern Ireland as defined in Illinois Public Act 85-
1390 (1988 Il. Laws 3220).

‘The provisions ofthis Section 6.4 do not apply to contracts for which the City receives funds
‘administered by the United States Department of Transportation, except tothe extent Congress has
directed that the Department of Transportation not withhold funds from states and localities that
‘choose to implement elective purchasing policies based on agreement to comply withthe MacBride
Principles for Northern Ireland, or to the extent that such funds are not otherwise withheld by the
Department of Transportation.

65 Business Relationships with Elected Officials

Pursuant to Section 2-156-030(b) ofthe Municipal Code ofthe City of Chicago, itis illegal

ipo 14
for any elected official of the City, or any person acting atthe direction of such offical, to contact,
either orally orin writing, anyother Cty oficial or employee with respect to any matter involving
‘any person with whom the elected official has a business relationship, or to participate in any
discussion in any City Counel committee hearing orn any City Council meting oto vote on any
mater involving the person with whom an clected offical asa business relationship. Violation of
Section 2-186-130(b) by any elected official with respect to this Agreement is grounds for
termination ofthis Agreement. The term business relationships defined asset forth in Section 2-
156-080 ofthe Municipal Code of Chicago.

Section 2-156-080 defines a "business relationship" as any contractual or other private
business dealing ofan official, ois orher spouse, oof any entity in which an official or his or her
spouse ha financial interest, witha person or entity which entitles an offical to compensation or
payment inthe amount of $2,500 or more in calendar year, provided, however, financial interest
shal not include: (i) any ownership through purchase a fair market value or inheritance ofless than
one percent of the share of corporation, or any corporate subsidiary, parent orafiliate thereof,
regardless ofthe value of or dividends on such shares, if such shares are registered ona securities
‘exchange pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; (i) the authorized
‘compensation paid to an official or employee for his ofice or employment; (i) any economic
‘benefit provided equally to all residents of the City (iv) atime or demand deposit in a financial
instinton; or (v) an endowment or insurance policy or annuity contract purchased fom an insurance
company. A ‘contractual or other private business dealing” shall not include any employment
relationship of an official's spouse with an entity when such spouse has no discretion concerning or
input relating tothe relationship between that entity and the City.

" Ordinance

66 Chicago "Living Ws

(@) Section 2-92-610 of the Municipal Code of Chicago provides for a living
wage fr certain categories of workers employed inthe performance of City contract, specifically
non-City employed security guards, parking atendants, day laborers, home and healthcare workers,
cashiers, elevator operators, custodial workers and clerical workers ("Covered Employees")
‘Accordingly, prsuant o Section 2-92-610 and regulations promulgated unde it:

(1 Consultant has 25 or more full-time employees, and

Gi) Ifatany time during the performance of this Agreement, Consultant
and/or any Subcontractor or any other entity that provides any portion ofthe Services
(collectively "Performing Parties") uses 25 or more fl-time security guards, or any
number of other full-time Covered Employees, then

Gi) Consultant must pay its Covered Employees, and must assure tha ll
‘other Performing Parties pay their Covered Employees, not less than the minimum
‘hourly rate as determined in accordance with this provision (the "Base Wage") forall,
‘Services performed under this Agreement.

(©) Consultant's obligation o pay, and to assure payment of, the Base Wage will
begin at any time during the term ofthis Agreement when the conditions set forth in (a) and

pos 15
(@)Gi) above are met, and will continue until the end of the term of this Agreement.

(©) Prior to January 1, 2003, the Base Wage is $7.60 per hour; beginning January 1,
2003, the Base Wage is $9.05 per hour. As of July 1, 2003, and each July | thereafter, the Base
‘Wage will be adjusted, using the most recent federal poverty guidelines fora family of four as
published annually by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, to constitute the
following: the poverty guidelines for a family of four divided by 2000 hours or the current base
‘wage, whichever is higher. Atal times during the term ofthis Agreement, Consultant and all
‘other Performing Parties must pay the Base Wage (as adjusted in accordance withthe above). If
the payment of prevailing wages is required for Services done under this Agreement, and the
prevailing wages for Covered Employees are higher than the Base Wage, then Consultant and all
other Performing Parties must pay the prevailing wage rats.

(@ Consultant must include provisions in all subcontracts requiring its
‘Subcontractors to pay the Base Wage to Covered Employees. Consultant agrees to provide the
City with documentation acceptable to the Chief Procurement Officer demonstrating that all
Covered Employees, whether employed by Consultant or by a Subcontractor, have been paid the
Base Wage, upon the City’s request for such documentation. The City may independently audit
‘Consultant and/or Subcontractors to verify compliance with this section. Failure to comply with
the requirements ofthis section will be an event of default under this Agreement, and further,
failure to comply may result in ineligibility for any award of a City contractor subcontract for up
to 3 years.

(© _ Not-for-Profit Corporations: If Consultant is « corporation having federal
tax-exempt status under Section 501(c(3) ofthe Internal Revenue Code and is recognized under
IMlinois not-for-profit law, then the provisions of Sections (a) through (4) above do not apply.

67 Deemed Inclusion

Provisions required by law, ordinances, rules, regulations, or executive orders to be inserted
in this Agreement are deemed inserted in this Agreement whether or not they appear in this
Agreement o, upon application by either party, this Agreement will be amended to make the
insertion; however, in no event will the failure to insert the provisions before or after this Agreement
is signed prevent its enforcement.

ARTICLE 7. SPECIAL CONDITIONS

74 Warranties and Representations

In connection with signing and carrying out this Agreement, Consultant:

(2) _ warrants that Consultant is appropriately licensed under Ilinois law to perform the
Services required under this Agreement and will perform no Services for which a professional

enn 16
license is required by law and for which Consultant is not appropriately licensed;

(©) warrants it is financially solvent; it and each of its employees, agents and
Subcontractor of any tier ae competent to perform the Services required unde this Agreement and
‘Consultant is legally authorized to execute and perform or cause tobe performed this Agreement
under the terms and conditions stated inthis Agreement

(©) warrants that it will not knowingly use the services of any ineligible consultant or
‘Subcontractor for any purpose in the performance ofits Services under this Agreement;

(@) warrants that Consultant and its Subcontractors are not in default at the time this
‘Agreement is signed, and have not been deemed by the Chief Procurement Officer to have, within 5
years immediately preceding the date of this Agreement, been found tobe in default on any contract,
awarded by the City of Chicago;

(©) represents that it has carefully examined and analyzed the provisions and
requirements of this Agreement; it understands the nature of the Services required; from its own
‘analysis it has satisfied itself as to the nature of all things needed for the performance of this
Agreement; this Agreement is feasible of performance in accordance with all of its provisions and
requirements, and Consultant warranis it ean and will perform, or cause to be performed, the
‘Services in strict accordance with the provisions and requirements of this Agreement;

(represents that Consultant and, to the best ofits knowledge, its Subcontractors are not
in violation of the provisions of Section 2-92-320 of Chapter 2-92 of the Municipal Code of
(Chicago, and in connection with it, and additionally in connection with the Illinois Criminal Code,
‘720 ILCS $/33E as amended, and the Mlinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS $/11-42,1-1; and

(@) __ acknowledges that any certification, affidavit or acknowledgment made under oath in
‘connection with this Agreement is made under penalty of perjury and, if false, is also cause for
‘termination under Sections 8.1 and 8.3 ofthis Agreement.

72 Ethies
(8) In addition tothe foregoing warranties and representations, Consultant warrants:

(,_noofcer, agent or employee ofthe City is employed by Consultant or has a
financial interest directly of indirectly inthis Agreement or the compensation o be paid
under this Agreement except as may be permitted in writing by the Board of Ethics
established under the Municipal Code of Chicago (Chapter 2-156).

Gi) no payment, gratuity or offer of employment will be made in connection with
this Agreement by or on behalf of any Subcontractors othe prime Consultant or higher ter
Subcontractors or anyone associated with them, as an inducement for the award of
subcontract or order.
(©) Consultant further acknowledges that any Agreement entered into, negotiated or
performed in violation of any of the provisions of Chapter 2-156 is voidable as tothe City

73 Joint and Several Liab

Consultant, or it sucessors or assigns, i any is comprised of more than one individual or
othe legal entity (ora combination of them), then under this Agreement, each and without imitation
‘very obligation or undertaking inthis Agreement tobe fulfilled or performed by Consultants the
join and several obligation or undertaking ofeach such individual or other legal entity.

74 Business Documents

At the request of the City, Consultant must provide copies of its latest aicles of
incorporation, by-laws and resolutions, or partnership or joint venture agreement, as applicable.

7S Conflicts of Interest

(@)_Nomember of the governing body of the City or other unit of government and no
other officer, employee or agent ofthe City or other unit of government who exercises any functions
‘responsibilities in connection wit the Services to which this Agreement pertains is permitted to
have any personal interest, direct or indirect, in this Agreement. No member of or delegate to the
Congress ofthe United States or the Ilinois General Assembly and no alderman ofthe City or City
‘employee is allowed tobe edmitted to any share or part of this Agreement orto any financial benefit
to arise from it.

(®) Consultant covenants that it, and to the best ofits knowledge, its Subcontractors if
any (collectively, "Consulting Parties") presently have no director indirect interest and will not
acquire any interest, director indirect, in any projector contract that would conflict in any manner or
<degree with the performance of its Services under this Agreement,

(©) Upon the request of the City, Consultant must disclose tothe City its past client lst
andthe names of any clients with whom it has an ongoing relationship. Consultant is not permitted
to perform any Services forthe Cty on applications or other documents submited to the ity by any
‘of Consultant's past or present clients. If Consultant becomes aware of a conflict, it must
immediately stop work on the assignment causing the conflict and notify the City

(@ Without limiting the foregoing, ifthe Consulting Parties assist the City in determining
the advisability or feasibility of a project or in recommending, researching, preparing, drafting or
issuing a request for proposals or bid specifications fora project, the Consulting Parties must not
participate, directly or indirectly, as a prime, subcontractor or joint venturer in that project or inthe
‘preparation of a proposal or bid for that project during the term of this Agreement or afterwards. The
Consulting Parties may, however, asist the Cty in reviewing the proposals or bids for the project if

ea 18
‘one of the Consulting Parties have a relationship with the persons or entities that submitted the
proposals or bids for that project.

(© Consultant further covenants that, inthe performance of this Agreement, no person
hhaving any conflicting interest will be assigned to perform any Services or have access to any
confidential information, as described in Section 2.11 of this Agreement. If the City, by the
‘Commissioner in his reasonable judgment, determines that any of Consultant's Services for others
conflict withthe Services Consultant iso render for the City under this Agreement, Consultant must
terminate such other services immediately upon request of the ity.

(Furthermore, if any federal funds are to be used to compensate or reimburse
‘Consultant under this Agreement, Consultant represents that tis and will remain in compliance with
{federal restrictions on lobbying set forth in Section 319 ofthe Department of the Interior and Related
Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 1990, 31 U.S.C. § 1352, and related rules and
regulations set forth at 54 Fed. Reg. 52,309 ff. (1989), as amended. If federal funds are tobe used,
Consultant must execute a Certification Regarding Lobbying, which willbe attached as an exhibit
and incorporated by reference as if fully et forth here.

7.6 — Non-Liability of Public Officials

Consultant and any asignee or Subcontractor of Consultant must not charge any oficial,
‘employee or agent of the City personally with any liability or expenses of defense or hold any
official, employee or agent of the City personally lable to them under any term or provision ofthis
‘Agreement or because ofthe Citys execution, attempted execution or any breach ofthis Agreement.

ARTICLE 8. EVENTS OF DEFAULT, REMEDIES, TERMINATION, SUSPENSION
AND RIGHT TO OFFSET

8.1 Events of Default Defined
The following constitute events of default:

(2) Any material mistepresentation, whether negligent or willful and whether in the
inducement or in the performance, made by Consultant tothe City.

(®)_ Consultant's material failure to perform any ofits obligations under this Agreement
including the following:
(Failure due to a reason or circumstances within Consultant's reasonable
control to perform the Services with sufficient personne] and equipment or with sufficient
material to ensure the performance ofthe Services;

Gi) Failure to perform the Services in a manner reasonably satisfactory to the

eran 19
Commissioner or the Chief Procurement Officer of inability to perform the Services
satisfactorily asa result of insolvency, filing for bankruptcy or assignment forthe benefit of

(iil) Failure to promptly re-perform within a reasonable time Services that were
rejected as erroneous or unsatisfactory;

Giv)___ Discontinuance of the Services for reasons within Consultant's reasonable
control; and

(v) Failure to comply with any other material term ofthis Agreement, including
the provisions concerning insurance and nondiscrimination.

(©)__ Any change in ownership or control of Consultant without the prior written approval
of the Chief Procurement Officer, which approval the Chief Procurement Officer will not
‘unreasonably withhold,

(@ Consultant's default under any other agreement it may presently have or may enter
{nto with the City during the life ofthis Agreement. Consultant acknowledges and agreesthat inthe ~
event of a default under this Agreement the City may also declare « default under any such other
agreements.

(©) Failure to comply with Section 6.1 in the performance of the Agreement.

(Consultant's repeated or continued violations of City ordinances unrelated to
performance under the Agreement that in the opinion of the Chief Procurement Officer indicate a
‘willful or reckless disregard for City laws and regulations.

82 Remedies

‘The occurrence of any event of default permits the City tthe
Consultant in default. The Chief Procurement Officer may in his sole discretion give Consultant an
‘opportunity to cue the default within a certain period of time, which period of time must not exceed
30 days, unless extended by the Chief Procurement Officer, Whether o declare Consultant in default
is within the sole discretion of the Chief Procurement Officer and

‘uctual bass fori is subject to review or challenge under the Disputes provision of this Agreement.

‘The Chief Procurement Officer will give Consultant written notice ofthe defaul, either in the
form of a cure notice ("Cure Notice”), or, ifn opportunity to cure will be granted, a default notice
("Default Notice”). If the Chief Procurement Officer gives a Default Notice, he will also indicate
any present intent he may have to terminate this Agreement, and the decision to terminate (but not
the decision not to terminate) is final and effective upon giving the notice. The Chief Procurement
Officer may give a Default Notice if Consultant fails to effect a cure within the cure period given in @
(Cure Notice. When a Default Notice with intent to terminate is given as provided inthis Section 82 ~

oo 20
‘and Article 10, Consultant must discontinue any Services, unless otherwise directed in the notice,
‘and deliver ll materials accumulated inthe performance ofthis Agreement, whether completed or in
the process, to the City. After giving a Default Notice, the City may invoke any or all of the
following remedies:

(@) _ Therighttotake over and complete the Services, or any par of them, at Consultant's
expense and as agent for Consultan, either directly or though others, and bill Consultant forthe cost
ofthe Services, and Consultant mst pay the difference between the total amount ofthis bill and the
amount the City would have paid Consultant under the terms and conditions ofthis Agreement for
the Services that were assumed by the City s agent for Consultant under this Section 8.2;

(b) _ The right to terminate this Agreement as to any or all of the Services yet to be
performed effective ata time specified by the City;

(©) Theright of specific performance, an injunction or any other appropriate equitable
(8) Theright to money damages;
(©) The right to withhold all or any part of Consultant's compensation under this

(The right to deem Consultant non-responsible in future contracts to be awarded by
the City.

Ifthe Chief Procurement Officer considers it to bein the City's best interests, he may elect
‘not to declare default orto terminate this Agreement. The parties acknowledge that this provision is
solely forthe benefit ofthe City and that ifthe City permits Consultant to continue to provide the
Services despite one or more events of default, Consultant is in no way relieved of any of its
responsibilities, duties or obligations under this Agreement, nor does the City waive or relinquish
any of its rights

‘The remedies under the terms of this Agreement are not intended to be exclusive of any other
remedies provided, but each and every such remedy is cumulative and i in addition to any other
remedies, existing now or later, at law, inequity or by statute. No delay or omission to exercise any
right or power accruing upon any event of default impairs any such right or power nor i ita waiver
‘of any event of default nor acquiescence in it, and every such right and power may be exercised from
time to time and as often asthe City considers expedient.

83. Early Termination
In addition to termination under Sections 8.1 and 8.2 of this Agreement, the City may
terminate this Agreement, or all or any portion ofthe Services tobe performed under it, at any time

by a notice in writing from the City to Consultant. The City will give notice to Consultant in
accordance with the provisions of Article 10. The effective date of termination will be the date the

ea 2
notice is received by Consultant or the date stated inthe notice, whichever slater. Ifthe ity elects
‘o terminate this Agreement in full all Services to be provided under it must cease and all materials
‘that may have been accumulated in performing this Agreement, whether completed or inthe process,
_must be delivered to the City effective 10 days after the date the notice is considered received as
provided under Article 10 ofthis Agreement if no date is given) or upon the effective date stated in
the notice.

‘After the notice is received, Consultant must restrict its activities, and those of its
‘Subcontractors, to winding down any reports, analyses, or other activities previously begun. No
costs incurred after the effective date of the fermination are allowed. Payment for any Services
actually and satisfactorily performed before the effective date of the termination is on the same basis
‘asset forth in Article 4, but if any compensation is described or provided for on the basis ofa period
longer than 10 days, then the compensation must be prorated accordingly. No amount of
‘compensation, however, is permitted for anticipated profits on unperformed Services. The City and
‘Consultant must attempt to agree on the amount of compensation to be paid to Consultant, but if not
agreed on, the dispute must be settled in accordance with Article $ of this Agreement. The payment
so made to Consultant is in full setlement for all Services satisfactorily performed under this
‘Agreement.

‘Consultant must include in its contracts with Subcontractors an early termination provision in
form and substance equivalent to this early termination provision to prevent claims against the City
arising from termination of subcontracts aftr the early termination. Consultant will not be entitled
to make any early termination claims against the City resulting from any Subcontractor=s claims
against Consultant or the City tothe extent inconsistent with this provision.

If the Citys election to terminate this Agreement for default under Sections 8.1 and 8.2 is
determined in a court of competent jurisdiction to have been wrongful, then in that case the
‘termination isto be considered to be an early termination under this Section 8.3.

84 Suspension

‘The City may at anytime request that Consultant suspend its Services or any pat of them, by
giving 15 days prior written notice to Consultant or upon informal ora, or even no notice, inthe
‘event of emergency. No costs incurred after the effective date of such suspension are allowed.
Consultant must prompily resume its performance of the Services under the same terms and
‘conditions as stated in this Agreement upon written notice by the Chief Procurement Officer and
‘such equitable extension of time as may be mutually agreed upon by the Chief Procurement Officer
‘and Consultant when necessary for continuation or completion of Services. Any additional costs or
‘expenses actually incurred by Consultant asa result of recommencing the Services must be treated in
accordance with the compensation provisions under Article 4 of this Agreement,

‘No suspension of this Agreement is permitted in the aggregate to exceed a period of 45 days
‘within any one year ofthis Agreement. Ifthe total numberof days of suspension exceeds 45 days,
Consultant by written notice to the City may treat the suspension as an early termination of this
‘Agreement under Section 8.3,

85 Right to Offset
(@) _Inconnection with performance under this Agreement:
‘The City may offset any excess costs incurred:

(ifthe City terminates this Agreement for default or any other reason resulting
‘rom Consultant's performance or non-performance;

Gi) ifthe City exercises any of ts remedies under Section 8.2 of this
Agreement; or

(Gil) ifthe City has any credits due or has made any overpayments under this
Agreement.

“The City may offset these excess costs by use of any payment due for Services completed

before the City terminated this Agreement or before the City exercised any remedies. Ifthe amount

offs
the

insufficient to cover those excess costs, Consultant is liable for and must promptly remit to

ity the balance upon written demand for it. This right to offset isin addition to and not a

limitation of any other remedies available tothe City.

(b) _Inconnection with Section 2-92-380 of the Municipal Code of Chicago:

(@__Inaccordance with Section 2-92-380 ofthe Municipal Code of Chicago and in
audition to any other rights and remedies including any of set-off) available to the City
under this Agreement or permitted at law or inequity, the City is entitled to set off «portion
ofthe price or compensation due under this Agreement in an amount equal othe amount of|
the fines and penalties for each outstanding parking violation complaint andor the amount of|
any debt owed by Consultant to the City. For purposes of this Section 8.5, "outstanding
parking violation complaint” means a parking ticket, notice of pking violation or parking
Violation complaint on which no payment has been made or appearance fled inthe Circuit
Court of Cook County within the time specified on the complain. "Debt” means. aspecifed
sum of money owed to the City for which the period granted for payment has expired,

Gi) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection 8.5(b)) above, no such debt(s)
or outstanding parking violation complaint(s) will be offset from the price or compensation
due under this Agreement if one or more of the following conditions are met:

‘A. Consultant has entered into an agreement with the Department of

Revenue, or other appropriate City department, forthe payment ofall,
‘outstanding parking violation complaints and/or debts owed to the

2B
City and Consultant is in compliance with the agreement; or

B, Consultant is contesting liability for or the amount of the debt in @
pending administrative or judicial proceeding; or

C. Consultant has filed a petition in bankruptcy and the debts owed the
City are dischargeable in bankruptey.

(©) Inconnection with any liquidated or unliquidated claims against Consultant:

Without breaching this Agreement, the City may set off a portion of the price or
compensation due under this Agreement in an amount equal to the amount of any liquidated or
‘unliquidated claims that the City has against Consultant unrelated to this Agreement. When the
City’s claims against Consultant are finally adjudicated in a court of competent jurisdiction or
otherwise resolved, the City will reimburse Consultant tothe extent of the amount the City has offset
against this Agreement inconsistently with such determination or resolution.

ARTICLE 9. GENERAL CONDITIONS.
9.1 Entire Agreement
(®) General

This Agreement, and the exhibits attached to it and incorporated in it, constitute the entire
agreement between the parties and no other terms, conditions, warranties, inducements,
‘considerations, promises or interpretations are implied or impressed upon this Agreement that are not
‘addressed in this Agreement.

(b)  NoCollateral Agreements

‘Consultant acknowledges that, except onl for those representations, statements or promises
contained inthis Agreement and any exhibits attached to it and incorporated by reference init, no
representation, statement or promise, oral or in writing, of any kind whatsoever, by the City, its
officials, agents or employees, has induced Consultant to enter nto this Agreement or has been relied
‘upon by Consultant, including any with reference to: i) the meaning, correctness, suitability or
completeness of any provisions or requirements ofthis Agreement; (ji) the nature ofthe Services to
be performed; (i) the nature, quantity, quality or volume of any materials, equipment, labor and
other facilities needed forthe performance of this Agreement; (v) the general conditions which may
in any way affect this Agreement or its performance; (v) the compensation provisions of this
‘Agreement; or (vi) any other matters, whether similar to or different from those referred to in (i)
through (vi) immediately above, affecting or having any connection with this Agreement, its
negotiation, any discussions of its performance or those employed or connected or concerned with it

(©) NoOmissions

Consultant acknowiedges that Consultant was given ample opportunity and time and was
requested by the City to review thoroughly all documents forming this Agreement before signing his
‘Agreement in order that it might request inclusion in this Agreement of any statement,
representation, promise o provision that it desired oro tha it wished to place reliance. Consultant
did so review those documents, and either every such statement, representation, promise or provision
‘has been included in this Agreement or else, if omitted, Consultant relinquishes the benefit of any
such omitted statement, representation, promise or provision and is willing to perform this
‘Agreement nits entirety without claiming eiance on itor making anyother claim on account ofits
omission

92 Counterparts

‘This Agreement is comprised of several identical counterparts, each tobe fully signed by the
parties and each to be considered an original having identical legal effect.

93 Amendments

Except as provided in Section 3.3 of this Agreement, no changes, amendments, modifications
or discharge of this Agreement, or any part of it are valid unless in writing and signed by the
authorized agent of Consultant and by the Mayor, Comptroler, and Chief Procurement Officer of the
City or their respective successors and assigns. The City incurs no liability for Additional Services
‘without a written amendment to this Agreement under this Section 9.3.

‘Whenever in this Agreement Consultant is required to obtain prior written approval, the
‘effect of any approval that maybe granted pursuant to Consultan’ requests prospective only from
the later ofthe date approval was requested or the date on which the action for which the approval
‘was sought isto begin. Inno eveat is approval permitted to apply retroactively toa date before the
approval was requested

94 — Governing Law and Jurisdiction

‘This Agreement is govemed as to performance and interpretation in accordance with the laws
of the State of Hlinois.

Consultant irrevocably submits itseto the origina jurisdiction of those courts located within
the County of Cook, State of Illinois, with regard to any controversy arising out of, relating to, of in
any way concerning the execution or performance of this Agreement. Service of process on
Consultant may be made, at the option of the City, either by registered or certified mail addressed to
the applicable offic as provided for in this Agreement, by registered or certified mail addressed 10
the office actually maintained by Consultant, or by personal delivery on any officer, director, or
‘managing or general agent of Consultant, If any action is brought by Consultant against the City
conceming this Agreement, the action must be brought only in those cours located within the

oe) 2s
County of Cook, State of Minos.
9S Severability

If any provision of this Agreement is held or deemed to be or isin fact invalid, illegal,
inoperative or unenforceable as applied in any particular case in any jurisdiction or in all cases
‘because it conflicts with any other provision or provisions of this Agreement or of any constitution,
statute, ordinance, rule of law or public policy, or for any other reason, those circumstances do not
have the effec of rendering the provision in question invalid, illegal, inoperative or unenforceable in
any other case or circumstances, or of rendering any other provision or provisions in this Agreement
invalid, illegal, inoperative or unenforceable to any extent whatsoever. The invalidity, illegality,
inoperativeness or unenforceability of any one or more phrases, sentences, clauses or sectionsin this
‘Agreement does not affect the remaining portions of this Agreement or sny part of it.

9.6 Assigns

Allof the terms and conditions ofthis Agreement are binding upon and inure tothe benefit of
the partes and ther respective legal representatives, successors and assigns.

9.7 Cooperation

Consultant must at all times cooperate fully with the City and actin the Citys best interests.
fthis Agreement is terminated for any reason, or ifitis to expire on its own terms, Consultant must
‘make every effort to assure an orderly transition to another provider of the Services, if any, orderly
demobilization of its own operations in connection with the Services, uninterrupted provision of
‘Services during any transition period and must otherwise comply withthe reasonable requests and
requirements of the Department in connection with the termination or expiration.

98 Waiver

‘Nothing in this Agreement authorizes the waiver ofa requirement or condition contrary to
Jaw or ordinance or that would result in or promote the violation of any federal, state or local law or
‘ordinance.

Whenever under this Agreement the City by a proper authority waives Consultant's
performance in any respect or waives a requirement or condition to ether the City's or Consultant's
performance, the waiver so granted, whether express or implied, only applies to the particular
instance and is not a waiver forever or for subsequent instances of the performance, requirement or
condition. No such waiver is a modification ofthis Agreement regardless ofthe numberof times the
City may have waived the performance, requirement or condition. Such waivers must be provided to
Consultant in writing.
9.9 Independent Contractor

‘This Agreement is not intended to and will not constitute, creat, give rise to, or otherwise
recognize a joint venture, partnership, corporation or other formal business association or
organization of any kind between Consultant and the City. The rights and the obligations of the
parties are only those set forth inthis Agreement. Consultant must perform under this Agreement as
‘an independent contractor and not asa representative, employee, agent, or partner of the City.

‘This Agreement is between the City and an independent contractor and, if Consultant is an
individual, nothing provided for under this Agreement constitutes or implies an employer-employee
relationship such that:

(@) The City will not be liable under or by reason ofthis Agreement forthe payment of
‘any compensation award or damages in connection with the Consultant performing the Services
required under this Agreement.

(©) Consultants not entitled to membership in the City of Chicago Pension Fund, Group
‘Medical Insurance Program, Group Dental Program, Group Care, Group Life Insurance
Program, Deferred Income Program, vacation, sick leave, extended sick leave, or any other benefits|
‘ordinarily provided to individuals employed and paid through the regular payrolls of the City of
Chicago.

(©) _ The City of Chicago is not required to deduct or withhold any taxes, FICA or other
‘deductions from any compensation provided to Consultant.

ARTICLE 10. NOTICES

Notices provided for in this Agreement, unless provided for otherwise in this Agreement,
‘must be given in writing and may be delivered personaly or by placing in the United States mail,
first class and certified, retum receipt requested, with postage prepaid and addressed as follows:

If to the City Department of Planning and Development
121 North LaSalle Street
Chicago, Ilinois 60602
Attention: Commissioner
and
Department of Procurement Services
Room 403, City Hall
121 North LaSalle Steet

Chicago, Minois 60602
Attention: Chief Procurement Officer

oe ”
With Copies to: Department of Law
Room 600, City Hall
121 North LaSalle Street
Chicago, Minois 60602
‘Attention: Corporation Counsel

Ifto Consultant: Bietler Company
1 North LaSalle, Suite 2850
(Chicago, Minois 60602
‘Attention: Donald Shapiro
312) 889 - 5278

‘Changes in these addresses must be in writing and delivered in accordance with the provisions ofthis
Article 10, Notices delivered by mail are considered received three days ater mailing in accordance
‘with this Article 10. Notices delivered personally are considered effective upon receipt. Refusal to
accept delivery has the same effect as receipt.

ARTICLE 11. AUTHORITY

Execution of this Agreement by Consultant is authorized by a resolution ofits Board of
Directors, if a corporation, or similar governing document, and the signature(s) of each person
signing on behalf of Consultant have been made with complete and full authority to commit
‘Consultant to all terms and conditions of this Agreement, including each and every representation,
certification and warranty contained in it, including the representations, certifications and warranties
collectively incorporated by reference in it.

[Signature page follows.)

oa) 28
SIGNED at Chicago, IMlinois:
cry QA.cHYCAGO.

By:

hw Lane $
Lip Mat _——
Gu SMe ed
Cettrockbone

Re nded By:
Y

otnmsioner St Planing and Developme
Approved aso fom and legality

Not Requiwed- Firm Bireennt
Assistant Corporation Counsel

staeot IL
cou ot Cx
ol

‘This instrument was acknowledged before me on *1/30, (date) by
(oamels of povonls) as ZANE (ype of authority, eg, offer, trustee, ee.) of
(name of party on behalf of whom instrument was executed).

(Signature of Notary Public)

SIGNATURE PAGE SHARYL ROTHSCHILD
NOTA PUB STATE OF LLM
ir Conan Does 132007

SIGNED at Chicago, Minois:

CITY OF CHICAGO

By:
Mayor

Comptroller

Chief Procurement Officer

Re

‘Commissioner Sf Planning and Development

Approved as to form and legality:

Assistant Corporation Counsel
By:

sureot IL
county ot Cy,
od (date) by

This instrument was achgowledged before me on *1/30/
(camels of person's) as ENB (ype of authority, ¢g., officer, tuste, ete.) of
(name of party on behalf of whom instrument was executed).

Bebliicd (Signature of Notary Puli)

SIGNATURE PAGE

BEITLER
CoM PANY

‘Thursday, October 28, 2004

Jamise Perkins
City of Chicago

Department of Procurement Services
City Hall

121 North LaSalle Steet

Chicago, IL 60602

Re: Planning Now — Authorization of Jack Ambrister

Ms. Perkins:

Please accept this letter as authorization for Jack Ambrister to bind the Beitler Company
to the contract withthe City of Chicago for the Planning Now Program.

‘Thank you for your attention to this matter and please feel free to contact me with any
questions pertaining to this matter.

‘S Paul Beitler
President

‘The Beitler Company
IN, LaSalle Street
Suite 2850

Chicago, IL 60602

(One North LaSale Sute 280 Capo, inois 0602 912.855.0277 fax 312,850 050
or

EXHIBIT 1

‘Scope of Services
and
Time Limits for Performance
‘SCOPE OF SERVICES
BIETLER

Consultant will be awarded scope specific projects based on task order request proposals.
Consultant will be responsible for supplying all necessary labor, equipment, materials and
professional expertise required to perform the project as described in the associated tsk order.
‘Consultant wil provide Services as part ofa combined City taf/consltant project team under
the Department's Project Manager. At the beginning of the project, Consultan, under the
direction ofthe Project Manager, will develop a project management plan clearly stating the role
‘of Consultan, proposed Consultant team members andlor Subcontractors, deuiled Consultant
tasks, a timetable, anda budget estimate forthe Services of Consultant. The Department's
Project Manager will identify available stall, resources and expected work product(s). All
Services provided by Consultant must comply with established City policies and guidelines

Consultant will be required to develop a Joint Project Management Plan that includes the scope
‘of the project, the goals, Consultant tasks, deadlines and interinvfinal product(s) and expected,
‘budget under the direction ofthe Department's Project Manager. The Department's Project
‘Manager will identify available Cty resources, role of the City staff and define City taf tasks
and deadlines that relate to Consultant's Services as part ofthe management plan. The project
has to be approved by the Commissioner ofthe Department or his designee before any further
Services are provided and a sub-order forthe project approved. Under the direction of the
Department's Project Manager, Consultant must prepare planning analysis anda st of
recommendations, or other agreed upon products, in form and quality acceptable to the City
‘Consultant must, as required by the Department, provide written and oral presentations to get
{intemal and pubic input into the project management plan from the appropriate bodies involved
in the process.

Consultant must participate in any or all community outreach processes at all stages ofthe projet.
This may include setting up meetings, preparing meeting materials, taking minutes or seeking
input from a task force or through public meetings convened for the project.

‘Consultant must identify and supervise Subcontractors to carry out appropriate portions of the
project management plan, atthe instruction of the Department's Project Manager in compliance
with the City’s policy on MBE and WBE firms. Consultant must, as appropriate, conduct
background research and analysis under the direction of the Department's Project Manager as
part of product development. Consultant must review the Services and invoices of all
Subcontractors for completeness and accuracy, certify completion of Services and recommend
payment by the City
Category 1. Real Estate Development and Business Financial Analysis

a Pro-forma analysis and assistance with deal structuring.

'. Feasibility studies with respect to proposed building and property - acquisition, renovation
and construction.

c. Realestate assessments including tax status and ownership structure.

£ Realestate and retail market studies.

‘Category 2, Project Development and Management

4. Preevelopment including development team selection, programming and budgeting nd
scheduling

b. _Designdevelopmentincluding cost estimating and budgeting scheduling value engineering,
design review and oversight, and contact review.

© Construction management including procurement, field observation, quality assessment and
project closeout

4 Construction monitoring and inspection services.

Category 6. Retention and Attraction of Manufacturing Companies
Asses reuse potential, prepare and implement reuse srategics for vacant industrial

facilities.
Provide strategies for ownership succession.
Eas

‘The Commissioner will provide Consultant with a basic Task Order form after the Agreement is
awarded,

{Al Services must be authorized by a written Task Order, Consultant acknowledges and agrees tat the
City is under no obligation to issue any Task Orders for Services.

‘Upon the written approval ofthe Commissioner, the Department will ssue a Task Order Request
specifically referencing this Agreement, identifying the project, and setting forth the Services to be
performed pursuant to the proposed Task Order and a desired completion date. Consultant must respond
bby proposing atime schedule, budget, deliverables and a list of Key personnel, all of which must conform
to the terms ofthe Task Order Request and the terms and conditions ofthis Agreement. Consultant must
not respond to any Task Order Request not approved in writing by the Commissioner. Costs associated
with the preparation of Task Orders are not compensable under this Agreement and the City i not liable
for any additional coats.

Following Consultant's submission ofthe Task Order, the Commissioner and the Chief Procurement
(Officer will review the Task Order and may elect to approve it, eect it or se ita a basis for further
‘negotiations with Consultant regarding the scope of the project and the project completion date. Ifthe
City and Consultant negotiate the scope ofthe project and the project completion date, Consultant must
submit a revised Task Order (based upon such negotiations) to the City for approval.

All Task Orders are subject tothe approval of the Chief Procurement Officer and no Task Order will
‘become binding upon the City until itis approved, in writing, by the Chief Procurement Officer. Absent
approval of a Task Order by the Chief Procurement Officer, the ity will not be obligated to pay or have
any lability, under any theory of recovery (Whether under the Agreement, at law or in equity), t0
‘Consultant for any Services provided by Consultant pursuant toa Task Order, or otherwise,

Ifthe Services tobe performed under a Task Order are to be funded from a fund othe than the fund
‘identified by the fund number set forth in this Agreement, such change in finding must be approved by
the Chief Procurement Officer and the Comptroller prir to the issuance of any Task Order funded
‘through such fund, andthe applicable fund number must be included inthe Task Order form provided to
Consultant.

‘Consultant will commence its Services immediately upon receipt ofan executed Notice to Proceed issued
‘by the Commissioner or his authorized designee.
‘Schedule of Compensation
For January 1, 2004 — December 31, 2007

Flat Rate per
Hour

Project Executive Partner

Program Manager Principal

‘Sr Project Manager/Sr. Construction Mgr

Project Mgr/Project Director/Const. Mar

‘Sy Consultan Sr Estimator/Sr Broker

‘Consultant/Estimator/ControllevEngineer/Scheduler S161

Ser Investment Fin | Analyst Assoe/Sr Tech Coord 3150

Tavestmnent-Fin'l AnalysU Field Rep/Techincal
Coordinator/Designer/Architect

“Accountant/-Marketing - Project Coordinator- Si05
“Administrator- Assistant Specifications Writer
‘Administration/Clerical 3

EXHIBIT 3

Economie Disclosure Statement and Affidavit
CITY OF CHICAGO
ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT AND AFFIDAVIT

‘The City of Chicago (the "City’) requires disclosure of the information requested in this
Economic Disclosure Statement and Affidavit (‘EDS") before any City agency, department or
City Coun action regarding the matter thats the subject ofthis EDS. Please fully complete
‘each statement, with all information current as ofthe date this EDS is signed. Ifa question is
‘not applicable, answer with °N.A." An incomplete EDS will be returned and any City
action will be interrupted.

Please print ortype all responses clearly and legibly. Add addtional pages ifneeded, being
Careful to identity the potion ofthe EDS to which each additional page refers.

WHO MUST SUBMIT AN EDS:

1. Applicants: Any individual or entty (the "Applicant? making an application tothe City
{or action requiring Cty Council or other City agency approval must fie this EDS.

2. Entities holding an Interest in the Applicant Generaly, whenever an ownership
interest in the Applicant (for example, shares of stock of the Applicant or a limited partnership
interest in the Applicant) is held or owned by a legal entity (for example, a corporation or
partnership, rather than an individual) each such legal entity must also file an EDS on its own
behalf, and any parent of that legal entity must do so until individual owners are disclosed.
However, ifan entty fling an EDS is a corporation whose shares are registered on a national
secures exchange pursuanto the Secures Exchange Actof 1854, only those shareholders
that own 10% or more ofthat ling eny's stock must fle EDSs on their own behat

ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF POSSIBLE CREDIT AND OTHER CHECKS: By completing
and fling this EDS, the Undersigned acknowledges and agrees, on behalf of itself and the
“entities or individuals named inthis EDS, that the City may investigate the creditworthiness of
‘some or al of the entties or individuals named in this EDS.

CERTIFYING THIS EDS: Execute the certification on the date ofthe inital submission ofthis:
EDS. You may be asked to re-certify this EDS on the last page as of the date of
‘submission of any related ordinance to the City Council, or as of the date of the
‘closing of your transaction.

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE: Itis the City's policy to make this document available to the
public on its Internet site andlor upon request.
GENERAL INFORMATION

Date is E08 is completed
‘A. Who ls submiting this EOS? That dial or eit lbp ho
“Undersigned” troughoutis EDS. HEHE LER Caen)
NOTE: The Undersigned is the individual or entity submitting this EDS, whether the
Undersigned is an Applicant or is an entity holding an interest in the Applicant. This
EDS requires certain disclosures and certifications from Applicants that are not

required from entities holding an interest in the Applicant. When completing this EDS,
please observe whether the section you are completing applies only to Applicants.

C,

BK Check here if the Undersigned is fling this EDS as an Applicant.

[Check here ifthe Undersigned is fling as an entity holding an interest in an
Applicant.

‘Also, please identify the Applicant in which this entity holds an interest:

B. Business address ofthe Undersigned: | N. La Sie St. _

RO

©. Telephone 22 245-07] Fax2- 844 -M5DEm
D. Name ofcontact person; WHO MIKA STR

E: Tax dentifcation number (optional):

Brief description of contract, transaction or other undertaking (referred to below as,
the "Matter) to which this EDS pertains. (Include project number and location if

erable 9 Roel
Spots BAG iRA Boa
|s the Matter a procurement? (es [No

a procurement, Specification # 241%9B 0. and
Contract# Wl 2.2

not a procurement:
1. City Agency requesting EDS:
2. Git action requested (e.9. loan, grant, sale of property):

3._If property involved, list property location:

‘SECTION ONE: DISCLOSURE OF OWNERSHIP INTERESTS

A

1

NATURE OF ENTITY

Indicate whether the Undersigned is an individual or egal entity:

Individual {] Limited Liability Company

3 Business corporation ]. Joint venture

Ly Sole proprietorship L]_Notfor-proft corporation
(is the not for-profit corporation also a 501(c)(3))?
(Yes []No

{] General partnership Other entity (please specify)

{Limited partnership

‘State of incorporation or organization, if applicable:
——ILLINgS
For legal entities not organized in the State of lincis: Is the organization authorized to

do business in the State of linois as a foreign entity?
(Yes (No DNA
B. ORGANIZATION INFORMATION

1, _ IF THE UNDERSIGNED IS A CORPORATION:
‘a. Uist below the names and titles of all executive officers and ail directors of the
‘corporation. For notfor-profit corporations, also list below any executive director of the
‘corporation, and indicate all members, if any, who are legal entities. If there are no such
members, write "no members.”

(1). Ifthe Matters a procurement and the Undersigned is a corporation whose shares are
registered on a national securties exchange pursuant o the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
jlease provide the folowing information conceming shareholders who own shares equal to or
in excess of 7.5% of the corporation's outstanding shares.

Name Business Address Percentage Interest

(2). ithe Matteris nota procurement, and the Undersignedis a corporation whose shares
are registered on a national securities exchange pursuant tothe Securities Exchange Act of
+1934, please provide the folowing information concerning shareholders who own shares equal
t0.0r in excess of 10% of the corporation's outstanding shares.

Name Business Address Percentage interest

©. Forcorporations that are not registered on a national secures exchange pursuant to
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Ist below the name, business address and percentage
of ownership interest of each shareholder.

Business Address Percentage interest

"Thue Bathe Walle 3A Yl bis [00%

2. _IF THE UNDERSIGNED IS A PARTNERSHIP OR JOINT VENTURE:
For general or limited partnerships or joint ventures: list below the name, business address,
‘and percentage of ownership interest of each partner. For limited partnerships, indicate
whether each partner is a general partner or a limited partner.

Name Business Address Percentage Interest

3, IF THE UNDERSIGNED IS A LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY:
'@. _Listbelow the name, business address and percentage of ownership interest of each
(member and () manager. Ifthere are no managers, write "no managers,” and indicate how
the company is managed.

Name Business Address Percentage Interest

b. List below the names and tte of all officers, if any. If there are no officers, write "no
officers.”
Name Tile

4. __ IF THE UNDERSIGNED IS A LAND TRUST, BUSINESS TRUST, ESTATE OR
(OTHER SIMILAR ENTITY:

‘2. List below the name and business address of each individual or legal entity holding
legal te to the property that is the subject ofthe trust.

Name Business Address

b.”~ Uist below the name, business address and percentage of beneficial interest of each
beneficiary on whose behalf te is held.

Name Business Address. Percentage interest

6. _ IF THEUNDERSIGNED IS ANY OTHERLEGAL ENTITY, first describe the entity, then
provide the name, business address, and the percentage of interest of all individuals or legal
‘entities having an ownership or other beneficial interest inthe entity

Describe the entity:

Name Business Address Percentage interest

SECTION TWO: BUSINESS RELATIONSHIPS WITH CITY ELECTED OFFICIALS
A. DEFINITIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENT

1. The Undersigned must indicate whether it had a “business relationship" with a City
‘lected official in the 12 months before the date this EDS is signed.

2. Pursuantto Chapter 2-156 of the Municipal Code of Chicago (the “Municipal Code"), 2
“business relationship" means any “contractual or other private business dealing” of an
official, or his or her spouse, or of any entity in which an official or his or her spouse has
"nancial interes,” wth a person or entity which entites an official to compensation or payment
In the amount of $2,500 or more in a calendar year, but a “financial interest” does not include:
() any ownership through purchase at fair market value or inhertance of less than 1% of the
‘shares of a corporation, or any corporate subsidiary, parent or affilate thereof, regardless of
the value of or dividends on such shares, if such shares are registered on a securities
‘exchange pursuant to the Securties Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (i) the authorized
‘compensation paid to an official or employee for his office or employment; (i) any economic
benefit provided equally to allresidents of the City; (iv) atime or demand depositin a financial
Institution; or (v) an endowment or insurance policy or annuity contract purchased from an
insurance company. A "contractual or other private business dealing” does not include any
employment relationship of an officials spouse with an entty when such spouse has no
discretion concerning or input relating tothe relationship between that entity and the City.

B. CERTIFICATION
1. Has the Undersigned had a "business relationship" with any City elected offical in the
412 months before the date this EDS is signed?

(Yes to

Ityes, please identily below the name(s) of such City elected officials) and describe
‘such relationship(s):

‘SECTION THREE: DISCLOSURE OF RETAINED PARTIES
A. DEFINITIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS:

41. The Undersigned must disclose certain information about atomeys, lobbyists,
accountants, coneultans, subcontractors, and any ather person whom the Undersigned has
Telainedor expects retain in connection wih he Mater. Inparieiay, tho Undersigned mut
disclose the name of each such person, hisiher business address, tho nature of the
relationship, and te total amount ofthe fees paid or estimated tobe paid. The Undersigned
Isnotrequved to dsclose employees who are pad solely through the Undersigned's regular
pal

“Lobbyist” means any person (1) who, for compensation or on behalf of any person other than
himself, undertakes to influence any legislative or administrative action, or (i) any part of
‘whose duty as an employee of another includes undertaking to influence any legislative or
administrative action

2. Ifthe Undersignedis uncertain whether a disclosure is required under this Section, the
Undersigned must either ask the City whether disclosure is required or make the disclosure.

B. CERTIFICATION

Each and every attomey, lobbyist, accountant, consultant,-suboontractor, or other person
retained or anticipated to be retained directy by the Undersigned with respect to or in
‘connection with the Matter is listed below [begin lst here, add sheets as necessary

Name Business _ Relationship to Undersigned Fees (indicate whether
(indicate Address {attomey, lobbyist, et.) paid or estimated)
whether

retained

or anticipated |

tobe retained)

\Revecxvere 0 a1 noon SHA BEEVRTANED EY UNCED OE APA
‘Be RETANEDBY TE UnDERSICNED.
3: CERTIFICATIONS.
1, CERTIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE

For purposes ofthe certifications in A,B, and C below, the term “afte” means any indvidual
rent that, directly or indirectly: controls the Undersigned,is controled by the Undersigned,
is, withthe Undersigned, under common contol of another individual or entiy. indicia of
contol include, without imitation: intrfocking management or ownership: identity of interests
‘among family members; shared facities and equipment; common use of employees; oF
‘exganization ofa business entity folowing the ineligilty ofa business entity todo business
with the federal government or a state or local government, including the Ciy, using
substantially the same management, ownership, or principals asthe inelgbe ently

‘A. The Undersigned s not delinquent n the payment of any tax administeredby the Ilincis
Department of Revenue, nor are the Undersigned ois affiliates delinquent in paying any fine,
{e9, tax or other charge owed to the City. This includes all water charges, sewer charges,
license fees, parking tickets, property taxes or sales taxes. If there are any such

dleiguopcie note tem botw:

If the letters “NA the word "None,” or no response appears on the lines above, it will be
conclusively presumed that the Undersigned certified to the above statements.

B. The Undersigned and its affliates have not, in the past five years, been found in
violation of any City, state or federal environmental aw or regulation. there have been any

such lor, wl hem bone

It the letters “NA,” the word “None,” or no response appears on the lines above, it will be
conclusively presumed that the Undersigned certified to the above statements.
C. Ifthe Undersigned is the Applicant, the Undersigned and its affiiates wil nt use, nor
permit their subcontractors to use, any facility on the U.S, EPA's List of Violating Facilities in
‘connection with the Matter forthe duration of time that such faclty remains on the ist.

D. If the Undersigned is the Applicant, the Undersigned wil obtain ftom any
contractors/subconiractors hired or to be fired in connection with the Matter certifications
‘equal inform and substance to those in Section Four, I, (A-C) above and wil not, without the
por written consent ofthe Cy, use any such contractorisubcontractor that does not provide
‘such certifications or that the Undersigned has reason to believe has not provided or cannot
provide truthful cetifatons.

ithe Undersigned ts unable to make the crictons required in Seton Fur paragraph
(C) and (0) », provide an explanation:
Aone

If the letters "NA," the word “None,” or no response appears on the lines above, it will be
‘conclusively presumed thatthe Undersigned certified to the above statements.

J. CHILD SUPPORT OBLIGATIONS - CERTIFICATION REGARDING COURT-
ORDERED CHILD SUPPORT COMPLIANCI

For purposes of this part, "Substantial Owner” means any individual who, directly or indirectly,
‘owns or holds a 10% or more interest in the Undersigned. Note: This may include individuals
disclosed in Section One (Disclosure of Ownership Interests), and individuals disclosed in
‘an EDS fled by an entity holding an interest in the Applicant.

If the Undersigned's response below is #1 or #2, then allof the Undersigned's Substantial
‘Owners must remain in compliance with any such child support obligations unti the Matter is
completed. Failure of the Undersigned's Substantial Owners to remain in compliance with
their child suppor obligations in the manner set forthin either #1 or #2 constitutes an event of
default.

0
Check one:
v No Substantial Owner has been declared in arrearage on any child support
‘Obligations by the Circuit Court of Cook County, Ilinois or by another Ilinois court of
‘competent jurisdiction.

2

‘The Circuit Court of Cook County, Ilinois or another Ilinois court of competent

~~ “jurisdiction has issued an order declaring one or more Substantial Owners in arrearage

‘on child support obligations, Al such Substantial Owners, however, have entered into,
‘court-approved agreements for the payment of all such child support owed, and all
such Substantial Owners are in compliance with such agreements.

3

“The Circuit Court of Cook County, Ilinois or another Ilinois court of competent

Jurisdiction has issued an order declaring one or more Substantial Owners in arrearage
‘on child support obligations and (a) at least one such Substantial Owner has not
‘entered into a court-approved agreement for the payment of all such child support
‘owed: oF (b) at least one such Substantial Owner is not in compliance with a court-
‘approved agreement for the payment of all such child support owed; oF both (a) and

©).

4,

‘There are no Substantial Owners.

Ml,  EURTHER CERTIFICATIONS

‘A. The Undersigned and, if the Undersigned is a legal entiy, its principals (officers,
directors, partners, members, managers, executive director):

1

‘are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared
ineligible or voluntarily excluded from any transactions by any federal, state
‘or local unit of goverment;

have not, within a five-year period preceding the date of this EDS, been
Convicted of criminal offense, adjudged guity, or had a civil judgment
rendered against them in connection with: obtaining, attempting to obtain, or
performing a public (federal, state orlocal) transaction or contract under a pubic
‘wansaction; a violation of federal or state antitrust statutes; fraud;
embezzlement; theft; forgery; bribery; falsification or destruction of records;
‘making false statements; or receiving stolen property;

"
3. are not presently indicted for or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a
‘governmental entity (federal, state or local) with commission of any of the
‘offenses enumerated in clause (A)2) ofthis section;

4, have not, within a five-year period preceding the date ofthis EDS, had one or
‘more public transactions (federal, state or loca) terminated for cause or default
and

6. have not, within a five-year period preceding the date of this EDS, been
convicted, adjudged guity, or found liable ina civil proceeding, in any criminal or
Wil action instituted by the City or by the federal government, any state, or any
‘other unit of local government.

B. _Thecertiications in subparts B and D concem:

‘= the Undersigned;

‘+ any party participating inthe performance of the Matter (‘an Applicable Party’);

‘+ any “Afflated Entity” (meaning an individual or entity that, directly or indirectly:
Controls the Undersigned, is controlled by the Undersigned, or is, with the
LUndersigned, under common control of another individual or entity. Indicia of control
Include, without limitation: intertocking management or ownership; identity of
interests among family members, shared facilites and equipment; common use of
employees; or organization of a business entity folowing the ineligiblity of a
business entity to do business with federal or state or local goverment, including
the Cty, using substantially the same management, ownership, or principals as the
ineligible entity); with respect to Applicable Parties, the term Affiliated Entty means
‘an individual or entity that directly or indirectly controls the Applicable Party, is
controlled by it, or, withthe Applicable Party, is under common contro of another
individual or entity:

‘© any responsible official of the Undersigned, any Applicable Party or any Affilated
Entity or any other official, agent or employee of the Undersigned, any Applicable
Party or any Afflated Entity, acting pursuant tothe direction or authorization of a
responsible official of the Undersigned, any Applicable Party orany Affliated Entity
(collectively “Agents")

Neither the Undersigned, nor any Applicable Party, nor any Affilated Entity ofether the
Undersigned or any Applicable Party nor any Agents have, during the five years before
the date this EDS is signed, or, with respect to an Applicable Party, an Afiiated Entity,
‘or an Affiiated Entity of an Applicable Party during the five years before the date of
‘such Applicable Party's or Afflated Entty’s contract or engagementin connection with
the Matter:

2
1. bribed or attempted to bribe, or been convicted or adjudged guilty of bribery or
‘attempting to bribe, a public officer or employee of the City the State of linois, or any
‘agency of the federal government or of any state or local govemment in the United
States of America, in that officer's or employee's official capacity:

2. agreed or colluded with other bidders or prospective bidders, orbeen a party to
‘any such agreement, or been convicted or adjudged guity of agreement or
‘collusion among bidders or prospective bidders, in restraint of freedom of
‘competition by agreement to bid a fixed price or otherwise; or

3, made an admission of such conduct described in (1) or (2) above that is @
‘matter of record, but have not been prosecuted for such conduct; or

4, violated the provisions of Section 2-92-610 of the Municipal Code (Living
Wage Ordinance).

“The Undersigned understands and shall comply wit (1) the applicable requirements of
the Governmental Ethics Ordinance ofthe City, Tite 2, Chapter 2-156 ofthe Municipal
‘Code; and (2) all the applicable provisions of Chapter 2-56 of the Municipal Code
(Office of the Inspector General).

Neither the Undersigned, Affiliated Entity or Applicable Party, or any of their
‘employees, officials, agents or partners, is barred from contracting with any unitof state
Cr local goverment as a result of engaging in or being convicted of (1) biérigging in
violation of 720 ILCS 5/33E-3; (2) bid-rtating in violation of 720 ICS 5/33E-4; or (3)
any similar offense of any state or ofthe United States of America that contains the
‘same elements as the offense of bid-igging or bid-rotating.

Ifthe Undersigned is unable to certiy to any of he above statements inthis Part Il, the
Undersigned must explain below:

NNE

Ifthe letters “NA,” the word “None,” or no response appears on the lines above, it wil be
‘conclusively presumed that the Undersigned certified to the above statements.

8
1M. CERTIFICATION OF STATUS AS FINANCIAL INSTITUTION

For purposes of this Part IV, under Section 2-32-456(b) of the Municipal Code, the term
“financial institution” means a bank, savings and loan association, thf, credit union, mortgage
banker, mortgage broker, trust company, savings bank, investment bank, securities broker,
municipal securities broker, securities dealer, municipal securities dealer, securities
Underwriter, municipal securities underwriter, investment ust, venture capital company, bank
‘holding company, financial services holding company, or any licensee under the Consumer
Installment Loan Act, the Sales Finance Agency Act, or the Residential Mortgage Licensing
‘Act. However, financial institution” spectically shall notinclude any entity whose predominant
business is the providing of tax deferred, defined contribution, pension plans to public
‘employees in accordance with Sections 403(b) and 457 of the intemal Revenue Code.

[Additional definitions may be found in Section 2-32-455(b) of the Municipal Code]

A. CERTIFICATION
‘The Undersigned certifies that the Undersigned [check one]
is

‘2 “financial institution’ as defined in Section 2-32-456(b) of the Municipal Code.
B. If the Undersigned IS a financial institution, then the Undersigned pledges:

"We are not and will not become a predatory lender as defined in Chapter 2-32
‘of the Municipal Code. We further pledge that none of our afliates i, and none
‘of them will become, a predatory lender as defined in Chapter 2:32 of the
‘Municipal Code. We understand that becoming a predatory lender or becoming
an affliate of a predatory lender may result in the loss of the privilege of doing
business with the Cty."

Ifthe Undersignedis unable to make this pledge because itor any ofits affiliates (as
defined in Section 2-32-455(b) of the Municipal Code) is @ predatory lender within the
‘meaning of Chapter 2-22 the Municipal Code, explain here (atach additonal pages
if necessary}

INE

If the letters "NA." the word “None,” or no response appears on the fines above, it will be
conclusively presumed thatthe Undersigned certified to the above statements.

V. CERTIFICATION REGARDING INTEREST IN CITY BUSINESS

‘Any words or terms that are defined in Chapter 2-156 of the Municipal Code have the same
‘meanings when used inthis Part V.

1. Inv accordance with Section 2-156-110 of the Municipal Code:
Does any offcial or employee ofthe City have a financial interest in his or her own
‘name or in the name of any other person in the Matter?

tYes Bo

NOTE: If you answered “No” to Item V(1), you are not required to answer Items V(2)
‘or (3) below. Instead, review the certification in Item V(4) and then proceed to Part VI.
If you answered “Yes” to Item V(1), you must first respond to Item V(2) and provide
the information requested in item V(3). After responding to those Items, review the
certification in item V(4) and proceed to Part VI.

2. Unless sold pursuant to a process of competitive bidding, no City elected official or
‘employee shall have a financial interest in his or her own name or in the name of any
‘other person in the purchase of any property that ()) belongs to the City, or (i) s sold for
taxes or assessments, or (il) s Sold by virtue of legal process at the sult ofthe City
(collectively, “City Property Sale"). Compensation for property taken pursuant to the
City's eminent domain power does not constitute a financial interest within the meaning
of this Part V.

‘Does the Matter involve a City Property Sale?
tyes [No

3. youanswered "yes" to item V(1), provide the names and business addresses of the
City officials oF employees having such interest and identify the nature of such interest:
Name Business Address Nature of interest

5
4, The Undersigned futher certifi that no prohibited financial interest inthe Matter wi
be acquired by any City official or employee.

VL CERTIFICATION REGARDING SLAVERY ERA BUSINESS.

The Undersigned has searched any and all records of the Undersigned and any and all
predecessor entities for records of investments or profit from slavery, the slave industry, or
slaveholder insurance policies from the slavery era (including insurance policies issued to
slaveholders that provided coverage for damage to or injury or death oftheir staves) and has,
disclosed in this EDS any and all such records tothe Ciy. In addition, the Undersigned must
disclose the names of any and all slaves or staveholders described in those records. Failure
‘o.comply with these disclosure requirements may make the Matter to which this EDS pertains
‘voidable by the City.

Please check either (1) or (2) below. Ifthe Undersigned checks (2), the Undersigned
must disclose below or in an attachment to this EDS all requisite information as set
forth in that paragraph (2).

V1. The Undersigned vers that athe Undersigned has searched any andl records
afte Undersigned a any ad all predacocsr ets fo records of vestments pots
‘fom slavery: te lao indy, or sleveoldr reurance poles, and () the Underagred
tas ound n records ef vests profs rom avery the slave dusty, of saver
Insurance police and no vocorGs of ramos of any slaves of saenolers.

2. The Undersigned verifies that, as a result of conducting the search in step (1a)
‘above, the Undersigned has found records relating to investments or profits from slavery, the
slave industry, or slaveholder insurance policies and/or the names of any slaves or
slaveholders. The Undersigned verifies that the following constitutes full disclosure ofall such
records:

6
SECTIONFIVE: CERTIFICATIONS FOR FEDERALLY-FUNDED MATTERS:

1 CERTIFICATION REGARDING LOBBYING
‘A. Listbelow the names of ll individuals registered under the federal Lobbying Disclosure
‘Act of 1995 who have made lobbying contacts on behalf ofthe Undersigned with respect tothe
Matter: [Begin list here, add sheets as necessary:

NONE

[ff no explanation appoars or begins on the lines above, or ifthe letters "NA" or ifthe
word “None” appear, it will be conclusively presumed that the Undersigned means
that NO individuals registered under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made
lobbying contacts on behalf of the Undersigned with respect to the Matter.)

B. The Undersigned has not spent and will not expend any federally appropriated funds to
pay any individual isted in Paragraph (A) above for his or her lobbying activites orto pay any
individual to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, as defined
by applicable federal law, a member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an
employee of a member of Congress, in connection with the award of any federally funded
contract, making any federally funded grant or loan, entering into any cooperative agreement,
Cr to extend, continue, renew, amend, or modify any federally funded contract, grant, loan, oF
cooperative agreement.

C. The Undersigned will submit an updated certification at the end of each calendar
uarter in which there occurs any event that materially affects the accuracy of the statements
{and information set forth in paragraphs I(A) and I(B) above.

if the Matter is federally funded and any funds other than federally appropriated funds have
been or will be paid to any individual for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or
employee of any agency (as defined by applicable federal law), a member of Congress, an
Officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a member of Congress in connection
with the Matter, the Undersigned must complete and submit Standard Form-LLL,
"Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions. The form may
be obtained online from the federal Offce of Management and Budget (OMB) website at
hit ww whitehouse.aovlomb/arantssflin.pd, inked onthe page

hit. whitehouse cowomblarans/grants forms hi

fa
D. The Undersigned certifies that either (itis not an organization described in section
'501(c)4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; or (i) itis an organization described in
‘section 501(c)(4) of the Intemal Revenue Code of 1986 but has not engaged and will not
‘engage in “Lobbying Activities”,

E. Ifthe Undersignedis the Applicant, the Undersigned must obtain certifications equal in
{form and substance to paragraphs KA) through I(D) above from all subcontractors before it
‘awards any subcontract and the Undersigned must maintain all such subcontractors’
certifications for the duration of the Matter and must make such certifications promptly
available to the City upon request.

1, CERTIFICATION REGARDING NONSEGREGATED ES

‘A. Ifthe Undersigned is the Applicant, the Undersigned does not and will not maintain or
provide for its employees any segregated facilities at any ofits establishments, anditdoosnot
‘and will not permit ts employees to perform their services at any location under its control
Where segregated faciities are maintained.

"Segregated facilities," as used in this provision, means any waiting rooms, work
‘areas, restrooms, washrooms, restaurants and other eating areas, time clocks, locker rooms
‘and other storage or dressing areas, parking lots, drinking fountains, recreation or
entertainment areas, transportation, and housing provided for employees, that are segregated
by explicit directive or are in fact segregated on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or
rational origin because of habit, local or employee custom, or otherwise.

However, separated or single-user restrooms and necessary dressing or sleeping areas must
be provided to assure privacy between the sexes.

B. _ Ifthe Undersignedis the Applicant and the Matters federally funded, the Undersigned
will, before the award of subcontracts (if any), obtain identical certifications from proposed
subcontractors under which the subcontractor willbe subject tothe Equal Opportunity Clause.
Contracts and subcontracts exceeding $10,000, or having an aggregate value exceeding
{$10,000 in any 12-month period, are generally subject tothe Equal Opportunity Ciause. See
‘41 CFR Part 60 for further information regarding the Equal Opportunity Clause. The
Undersigned must retain the certifications required by this paragraph (B) for the duration of the
contract (i'any) and must make such certifications promptly available tothe City upon request.
C. Ifthe Undersignedis the Applicant and the Matters federally funded, the Applicant will
forward the notice set forth below to proposed subcontractors:

NOTICE TO PROSPECTIVE SUBCONTRACTORS OF REQUIREMENTS FOR
CERTIFICATIONS OF NONSEGREGATED FACILITIES

‘Subcontractors must submit to the Contractor a Certification of Nonsegregated
Facilties before the award of any subcontract under which the subcontractor will be
‘subject to the federal Equal Opportunity Clause. The subcontractor may submit such
Certifications either for each subcontractor forall subcontracts during a period (e.9.,
‘quarterly, semiannually, or annually).

Mm  CERTH EQUAL

Federal regulations require prospective contractors for federally funded Matters (e.g, the
‘Applicant and proposed subcontractors to submit the following information with their bids orin
writing at the outset of negotiations. (NOTE: This Part ll is to be completed only H the
Undersigned Is the Applicant.)

|A. Have you developed and do you have on fie affirmative action programs pursuant to
‘applicable federal regulations? (See 41 CFR Par 602)
(Yes (No XaNA mot Canela
8. Have you paricpated in any previous cortracs or subcontracts Subject to
fopportunty clause?
(es TINo. NA
CC. ‘Haveyou fed withthe Joint Reporting Commitee, the Director ofthe Office of Federal
Contract Compllance Programs, orthe Equal Employment Opporunty Commission all

eee Re toe fn cegpared ly law)
SECTION SiX:___NOTICE AND ACKNOWLEDGMENT REGARDING CITY

TT T "AIGN FINANCE

‘The Citys Governmental Ethics and Campaign Financing Ordinances, Chapters 2-156and2-
164 of the Municipal Code, impose certain duties and obligations on individuals or entities:
‘seeking City contracts, work, business, or transactions. The Board of Ethics has developed
‘an ethics training program for such individuals and entities. The fulltext of these ordinances
‘and the training program is available on line at www.cityofchicago,org/Ethics/, and may also
bbe obtained from the City’s Board of Ethics, 740 N. Sedgwick St., Suite 500, Chicago, IL
160610, (312) 744-9660. The following Is descriptive only and does not purport to cover every

°
‘aspect of Chapters 2-156 and 2-164 of the Municipal Code. The Undersigned must comply
fully with the applicable ordinances.

WW BY CHECKING THIS BOX THEUNDERSIGNED scowtspoes mixT
“THE UNDERSIGNED UNDERSTANDS THAT THE C1TY'S GOVERNMENTAL ETHICS AND
CAMPAIGN FINANCNG ORDNANCES, AMONG OTHER THINGS:

1) Provide that any contract negotiated, entered into or performed in violation of
the City's ethics laws can be voided by the City.

2) Limit the gifts and favors any individual or entity can giv, or offer to give, to any
City official, employee, contractor or candidate for elected City office or the
‘spouse or minor child of any of them, including:

‘&. any cash giftor any anonymous gift and
b. any gitbased on a mutual understanding that the City ofca's oF
‘employee's or City contractors actions or decisions willbe

intuenced in any way by the git.

3) Prohibit any City elected official or City employee from having a financial
interest, directly or indirect, in any conract, work, transaction or business ofthe
City, that interest has a cost or present value of $5,000 or more, or Hf that
interest entitles the owmer to receive more than $2,500 per year.

4) Prohibit any appointed City oficial from engaging in any contract, work,
transaction or business of the City, unless the matter is wholy unrelated to the
‘appointed official's duties or responsibilities.

5) Provide that City employees and officials, or their spouses or minor children,
‘cannot receive compensation or anything of value in retum for advice or
assistance on matters concerning the operation or business of the City, unless
their services are wholly unrelated to their City duties and responsibilities.

6) Provide that former City employees and officials cannot, for a period of one year
after their City employment ceases, assist or represent another on any matter
Involving the City if, while with the City, they were personally and substantially
involved in the same matter.
7) Provide that former City employees and offcials cannot ever assist or represent
‘another on a City contract if, while with the City, they were personally involved in or
‘rectly supervised the formulation, negotiation or execution ofthat contract

SECTION Si \CT_INCORPORA 1PLIANCE TIES,
DISCLOSURE

‘The Undersigned understands and agrees that:

‘A. The certifications, disclosures, and acknowledgments contained in this EDS will
become part of any contract or other agreement between the Applicant and the City in
connection wth the Matter, whether procurement, City assistance, or other City action, and are
‘material inducements tothe City's execution of any contractor taking other action with respect
‘to the Matter. The Undersigned understands that it must comply with all statutes, ordinances,
‘and regulations on which this EDS is based.

B. Ifthe City determines that any information provided inthis EDS is false, incomplete or
inaccurate, any contract or other agreement in connection with which itis submitted may be
rescinded or be void or voidable, and the City may pursue any remedies under the contract or
‘agreement (i not rescinded, void or voidable), at law, or in equity, including terminating the
Undersigned's participation in he Matter andior decining to allow the Undersigned to
participate in other transactions with the Cit.

©. Some oral of the information provided on this EDS and any attachments to this EDS
‘may be made available to the public onthe Internet, n response to a Freedom of information
‘Act request, or otherwise, By completing and signing this EDS, the Undersigned waives and
releases any possible rights or claims which it may have against the City in connection with the
public release of information contained in this EDS and also authorizes the City to verty the
‘accuracy of any information submitted in this EDS.

D. The Undersigned has not withheld or reserved any disclosures as to economicinterests
in the Undersigned, or as to the Matter, or any information, data or plan as tothe intended use
‘or purpose for which the Applicant seeks City Council or other City agency action.

E. __Theinformation provided in this EDS must be kept current. Inthe event of changes, the
Undersigned must supplement this EDS up tothe time the City takes action on the Matter.

Ey
CERTIFICATION
Under penalty of perjury, the person signing below: (1) warrants that he/she is authorized to
‘execute this EDS on behalf of the Undersigned, and (2) warrants that all certifications and

statements contained in this EDS are true, accurate and complete as of the date furished to
the City.

ToL AmPESTER

Print or type name of signatory:

bin. AmbeisTeR

Tite of signatory:
Sut to before me on (date]_“] 2.

[state].

Commission expires:_l\ - 1S -O drcomsson ees 158307

EXHIBIT 4

Insurance Requirements and
Evidence of Insurance
‘SONTRAGT INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS

‘Consulting Services for the City of Chicago

Planning Now Program — Category 1

Real Estate Development and Business Financial Analysis,
‘Specification No, 829189802

The Consultant must provide and maintain at Consultant's own expense, during the term of this
‘Agreement during the time period following expiration if Consultant is required to return and
perform any additional work, the insurance coverages and requirements specified below,
Insuring all operations retated to the Agreement.

A
»

2)

3)

4)

INSURANCE TO BE PROVIDED

‘Workers Compensation and Emolovers Liability

Workers Compensation Insurance, as pessoas by soplcabie inw coming 2
emplayees who are to provide a service under this Agreement and Employers Liab
‘overage with limits of not less than § 100,000 each accident or lliness.

‘Commercial General Liability (Primary and Umbrella)

Commercial General Liability Insurance or equivalent with limits of not less than
‘$1,000,000 per occurrence for bodily Injury, personal injury, and property damage
lability." Coverages must include the following: All premises and operations,
Products/completed, separation of insureds, defense, and contractual labilty (with i
limitation endorsement). The City of Chicago is to be named as an addtional iured oy
2 primary, non-contibutory basis for any lability arising directly or indirectly from the.
work,

Automobile Liabilty (Primary and Umbrella)

When any motor vehicles (owned, non-owned and hired) are used in connection with
work to be performed, the Consuttant must provide Automobile Liability Insurance with
Limits of not less then § 1,000,000 per occurrence for bodly injury and property damage,
The Gity of Chicago is to be named as an additonal insured on a primary, mon.
contributory basis.

‘Professional Liability

When ary professional consuitants perform work in connection’ with this Agreement,
Professional Liability Insurance covering acts, errors, or omissions must be nraintained
with limits of nat less than $1,000,000. Coverage must include contractual ably.
When policies are renewed or replaced, the policy retroactive date must coincide with, or
precede, start of work on the Agreement.  claims-made policy which ls not renewed or
‘eplaced must have an extended reporting perio of two (2) years.
5) Valuable Papers

When any data, media, specications, studies and other documents are produced or
sed under this Agreement, Valuable Papers Insurance must be maintained in an
‘amount to insure against any loss whatsoever, and must have limits sufficient to pay for
the re-creation and reconstruction of such records.

8) Property

‘The Consultant must be responsible for all loss or damage to City property at full
replacement cost.

‘The Consultant must be responsible for all loss or damage to personal property
(including but not limited to material, equipment, tools and supplies), owned, used,
Jeased, of rented, by Consultant.

B. ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS

‘The Consultant must fumish the City of Chicago, Department of Procurement Services, City
Hal, Room 403, 121 North LaSalle Street 60602, orginal Certificates of Insurance, of such
simiiar evidence, to be in force on the date of this Agreement, and Renewal Certicates of
Insurance, or such simiar evidence, If the coverages have an expiration or renewal date
cceuring during the term ofthis Agreement. The Consultant must submit evidence of Insurance
€n the lly of Chicago Insurance Cartiicate Form (copy attached) of equivalent prior to
‘Agreement eward. The receipt of any cetfcate does not constitute agreement by the Gly that
‘he Insurance requirements in the Agreement have been fuly met or thatthe Insurance policies
indicated on the certificate are in compliance with all Agreement requirements. ‘The falure of
the Gy to obtain cetfcates or other insurance evidence from Consultant is nota walver by the
City of any requirements for the Consultant to obtain and maintain the specified coverages. The
Consultant must advise al insurers of the Agreement provisions regarding insurance. Non-
conforming insurance does not relieve Consultant of the obligation to provide insurance 23
Spectied herein. Nonfuflment of the insurance conkitions may constitu violation of the

Agreement, and the City reiains the right to stop work until proper evidence of insurance is
povidone Mreoment maybe teranated

‘The insurance must provide for 60 days prior written notice to be given to the City in the event
‘coverage is substantially changed, canceled, or nor-renewed.

‘Any deductibles or self insured retentions on referenced insurance coverages must be bome by
Consultant.

The Consultant agrees that insurers waive their rights of subrogation against the City of
‘Chicago, its employees, elected officials, agents, or representatives.

‘The coverages and limits fumished by Consultant in no way limit the Consultants lables and
esponsibiliies spectied within the Agreement or bylaw.

‘Any insurance or self insurance programs maintained by the City of Chicago do not contribute
with insurance provided by the Consultant under the Agreement. -
‘The required insurance to be carried is not limited by any limitations expressed in the
indemnification language in this Agreement or any limitation placed on the indemnity in this
‘Agreement given as a matter of law.

‘The Consuitant must require all subcontractors to provide the insurance required herein, or
‘Consultant may provide the coverages for subcontractors. All subcontractors are subject to the
‘same insurance requirements of Consultant unless otherwise spectied in this Agreement.

Hf Consuttant or subcontractor desire additional coverages, the party desiring the additional
‘coverages is responsible forthe acquisition and cost.

“The City of Chicago Risk Management Department maintains the right to modify, delete, ater or
change these requirements.

Ina reqjarigo plan now pomcatt
Consulting Services for the Gity of Chicago
Planning Now Program — Category 2
Project Development and Management

‘Specfction No, 82980802

‘The Consultant must provide and maintain at Consultant's own expense, during the term ofthis
‘Agreement during the time period following expiration if Consultant is required to retum and
perform any addtional work, the insurance coverages and requirements specified below,
inguring all operations related fo the Agreement.

A
)

2

BE)

4)

INSURANCE TO BE PROVIDED

Workers Compensation and Emoiovers Liability

Workers Compensation Insurance, as prescribed by applicable law covering all
‘employees who are to provide a service under this Agreement and Employers Liablity
‘coverage with mits of not less than § 100,000 each accident or ilness.

‘Commercial General Liability (Primary and Umbrelia)

‘Commercial General Liability Insurance or equivalent with limits of not less than
$2,000,000 per occurrence for bodily injury, personal injury, and property damage
liablty. Coverages must include the following: All premises and operations,
producis/completed, separation of insureds, defense, and contractual Habilty (with no
limitation endorsement). The City of Chicago is to be named as an additional insured on
{2 primary, non-contributory basis for any labilty arising directly or indirectly from the
work,

‘Subeonsultants performing work for the Consultant may maintain limits of not less than
‘$1,000,000 with the same terms herein.

‘Automobile Liability (Primary and Umbrella)

When any motor vehicles (owned, non-owned and hired) are used in connection with
work to be performed, the Consultant must provide Automobile Liabilly Insurance with
limits of not less than $, 1,000,000 per occurrence for bodtly injury and property damage.
‘The City of Chicago is to be named as an additional insured on primary, ‘non
contributory basis,

‘Professional Liabilty

When any architects, engineers, construction or project managers, or any other
professional consultants perform work in connection with this Agreement, Professional
ability Insurance covering acts, erors, or omissions must be maintained with limits of
Pat less than $ 1,000,000. Coverage must include contractual labilly. When policies
{are renewed oF replaced, the policy retroactive date must coincide with, or precede, start
‘of work on the Agreement. A claims-made policy which is not renewed or replaced must
have an extended reporting period of two (2) years.
5) Valuable Papers

When any plans, designs, drawings, media, data, specifications and documents are
produced or used under this Agreement, Valuable Papers Insurance must be maintained
In an amount to insure against any loss whatsoever, and must have limits sufficient to
pay for the re-creation and reconstruction of such records.

6) Property

The Consultant must be responsible for all loss or damage to City property at full
replacement cost.

‘The Consultant must be responsible for all loss or damage to personal property
(including but not limited to material, equipment, tools and supplies), owned, used,
leased, or rented, by Consultant.

B. _ ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.

‘The Consultant must fumish the City of Chicago, Department of Procurement Services, City
Hall, Room 403, 121 North LaSalle Street 60602, original Certificates of Insurance, or such
similar evidence, to be in force on the date of this Agreement, and Renewal Certiicates of
Insurance, or such similar evidence, if the coverages have an expiration or renewal date
‘occurting during the term ofthis Agreement. The Consultant must submit evidence of insurance
fon the Gity of Chicago Insurance Certficate Form (copy attached) or equivalent prior to
‘Agreement award. The receipt of any cortficate does not constitute agreement by the City that
the insurance requirements in the Agreement have been fully met or thatthe insurance policies
indicated on the cerificate are in compliance with all Agreement requirements. The failure of
the City to obtain certificates or other insurance evidence from Consultant is not a waiver by the
City of any requirements for the Consultant to obtain and maintain the specified coverages. ‘The
Consultant must advise all insurers of the Agreement provisions regarding insurance. Non-
conforming insurance does not relieve Consultant of the obligation to provide insurance as
Specified herein. Nonfuffilment of the insurance conditions may constitute @ violation of the
‘Agreement, and the City retains the right to stop work unt proper evidence of insurance is
provided, or the Agreement may be terminated.

‘The insurance must provide for 60 days prior writen notice to be given to the City in the event
coverage is substantially changed, canceled, or non-renewed,

‘Any deductibles or sef insured retentions on referenced insurance coverages must be bome by
Consultant.

The Consultant agrees that insurers waive their rights of subrogation against the City of
Chicago, its employees, elected officials, agents, or representatives.

‘The coverages and limits furnished by Consultant in no way limit the Consuitant'sliabitties and
responsibilities spectied within the Agreement or by law.

‘Any insurance or self insurance programs maintained by the City of Chicago do not contribute
with insurance provided by the Consultant under the Agreement
‘The required insurance to be carried is not limited by any limitations expressed in the
indemnification language in this Agreement or any limitation placed on the indemnity in this
‘Agreement glven as a matier of law.

‘The Consultant must require all subcontractors to provide the insurance required herein, or
Consultant may provide the coverages for subcontractors. All subcontractors are subject tothe
Same insurance requirements of Consultant unless otherwise specfied in this Agreement.

4M Consultant or subcontractor desire additional coverages, the party desiring the additional
coverages is responsible for the acquisition and cost.

‘The City of Chicago Risk Management Department maintains the ight to modify, delete, alter or
‘change these requirements.

Inara plan now promcat2
CONTRACT INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
‘Consulting Services forthe City of Chicago
Planning Now Program ~ Category 6
Retention and Attraction Manufacturing Companies
‘Spestfication No. 829189802

The Consuitant must provide and maintain at Consultant's own expense, during the term
‘of this Agreement during the time period folowing expiration if Consultant is required to
return and perform any additional work, the insurance coverages and requirements
‘specified below, insuring all operations related to the Agreement.

A
»

2

3)

4)

INSURANCE TO BE PROVIDED

Workers Compensation and Emolovers Liability,

Workers Compensation Insurance, as prescribed by applicable law covering all
employees who are to provide a service under this Agreement and Employers
LUablity coverage with limits of not less than $, 100,000 each accident or iness.

‘Commercial General Lisbilty (Primary and Umbrelia)

‘Commercial Generai Liability Insurance or equivalent with limits of not less than
$1,000,000 per occurrence for bodily injury, personal Injury, and property
Gamage Tabi. “Coverages must incude ihe folowing: "Al promises and
‘operations, productsicompleted, separation of insureds, defense, and
contractual iabilty (with no limitation endorsement). The City of Chicago is to be
named as an additonal insured on a primary, non-contributory basis for any
labilty arising directly or indirectly from the work.

Automobile Liability (Primary and Umbrelia)

When any motor vehicles (owned, non-owned and hired) are used in connection
with work to be performed, the Consultant must provide Automobile Liabilty
Insurance with limits of not less than S, 1,000,000 per occurrence for bodily injury
‘and property damage. The City of Chicago is to be named as an additional
Insured on a primary, non-contributory basis.

Professional Liability

When any architects, engineers, construction managers, professional consultants
perform work in connection with this Agreement, Professional Liabilty Insurance
‘covering acts, errors, or omissions must be maintained with mis of not less than
$1,000,000. ‘Coverage must include contractual liability. When policies are
renewed or replaced, the policy retroactive date must coincide with, or precede,
start of work on the Agreement. claims-made policy which is not renewed or
replaced must have an extended reporting period of two (2) years.

5) Valuable Papers

‘When any plans, designe, drawings, media, data, specifications and documents,
are produced or used under this Agreement, Valuable Papers Insurance must be
‘maintained in an amount to insure against any loss whatsoever, and must have
limits sufficient to pay for the re-creation and reconstruction of such records.

©) Property

‘The Consultant must be responsible for al loss or damage to City property at full
replacement cost.

‘The Consultant must be responsible forall loss or damage to personal property
(including but not limited to material, equipment, tools and supplies), owned,
sed, leased, or rented, by Consultant

B. ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:

‘The Consuttant must furnish the City of Chicago, Department of Procurement Services,
City Hall, Room 403, 121 North LaSalle Street 60602, original Certificates of Insurance,
fF such similar evidence, to be in force on the date of this Agreement, and Renewal
Certificates of Insurance, or such similar evidence, I the coverages have an expiration
or renewal date occurring during the term of this Agreement. The Consultant must
submit evidence of insurance on the City of Chicago Insurance Cerificate Form (copy
attached) or equivalent prior to Agreement award. The receipt of any certicate does not
Constitute agreement by the City thatthe insurance requirements in the Agreement have
been fully met or that the insurance polices indicated on the certificate are in compliance
with all Agreement requirements. The failure of the City to obtain certificates oF other
insurence evidence from Consultant is not a waiver by the City of any requirements for
the Consutant to obtain and maintain the specified coverages, The Consultant must
‘advise all insurers of the Agreement provisions regarding insurance. Non-conforming
insurance does not relieve Consutant ofthe obligation to provde insurance as specified
herein. Nonfutfilment of the insurance conditions may constitute @ violation of the
‘Agreement, and the Cty retains the right to stop work untl proper evidence of insurance
's provided, or the Agreement may be terminated.

‘The insurance must provide for 60 days prior written notice to be given to the Ciy in the
event coverage is substantially changed, canceled, or non-renewed.

‘Any deductibles or self insured retentions on referenced insurance coverages must be
bore by Consultant

‘The Consultant agrees that insurers waive their rights of subrogation against the City of
Chicago, its employees, elected officials, agents, or representatives.

‘The coverages and limits furnished by Consultant in no way limit the Consultant's
liabilities and responsibilities specified within the Agreement or by law.

Any insurance or self insurance programs maintained by the City of Chicago do not
contribute with insurance provided by the Consultant under the Agreement.
‘The required insurance to be carried is not limited by any limitations expressed in the
Jndemnification language in this Agreement or any limitation placed on the indemnity in
this Agreement given as a matter of law.

‘The Consultant must require all subcontractors to provide the insurance required herein,
or Consultant may provide the coverages for subcontractors. All subcontractors are
subject to the same insurance requirements of Consultant unless otherwise specified in
this Agreement.

W Consultant or subcontractor desire additional coverages, the party desiring the
‘additonal coverages is responsible for the acquisition and cost.

‘The City of Chicago Risk Management Department maintains the right to modify, delete,
alter or change these requirements,

Ine raquo olan now pgmecats
wpaoes

wren

wiraeaw

Willis

CERTIFICATE OF LIABILITY INSURANCE page 2 oz >

Barna ree or

06/03/2008

INGURERS AFFORDING COVERAGE.

[paca American ananity Comms of Seana, Pon 284-003 |
[omens continmead canunisy Company —_____Bent00 |

soe SPL ASGGAT Gare MOTTO

page 3 of 3

IMPORTANT

We certcate toler ian ADDITIONAL INSURED, the poloyis) must be endorses. A statement
‘on scarlet dvs nt confer igh the corecats hacen eu of uch endorsement)

Wf SUBROGATION IS WAVED, subject to the torn and condions ofthe pty. cain poles moy
fequre an endorsement. A satemant en is carfcale coee ot confer ight to the cerfcate
helder neu of uch endosements).

DISCLAIMER

‘The Cerca of hmurance on he reverse sie of tis form dove not const « corrct between
{be leing Inoue), eutoted ropresetaive or producr, and the certcate holder, nor doe8 i
‘rn or nepebvey mend. extend ora fe coverage afoed by the poe Ysted tereon.

REORD RSS TAT

rug, 32°2008 13:15 312 977.9038 somnsae aR 092/092

"ACORD. CERTIFICATE OF LIABILITY INSURANCE aeres:
aa a INSURANCE pi age SUES FS MATTER Oc REDREUTON
lDersa. rt

zl
fx euscnor — [41,000,000

a | Seeecemenme |Paz-esD-soeser-ox4| 01/03/04) 2703/08
= 0000
ec omoue-rooru|+ 1,000,000,

| carro RRS CT TORTS TT TR TO
Secraice iuployer Madorrenents J. Peol Blatier Development Co. Voluntary
Compensation indorsement) ALI States Rndorsenaat

oat

EXHIBIT S

List of Key Personnel:

Name:

Title:
Key Personnel

Sr Consultan/Sr Broker
Sr Investment Fin'T
‘Analys/Assoc.

Marketing Coordinator
The Beitler Company ‘Administration/Clerical

Perkins & Will r
Perkins & Will Ralph Johnson gram Mgr/Principal
Perkins & Will Eva Maddox. Program Mgr/Principal
Perkins & Will Seven Santuosi Project Mgr/Project Director
eS eS cs

Spery Management r gram Mgr/Principal

EXHIBIT 6

‘SPECIAL CONDITIONS REGARDING MINORITY BUSINESS ENTERPRISE
‘COMMITMENT AND WOMEN BUSINESS ENTERPRISE COMMITMENT

roy
BEITLER

‘Thursday, October 28, 2004

Jamise Perkins
City of Chicago

Department of Procurement Services
City Hall

121 North LaSalle Street

Chicago, IL 60602

Re: Planning Now ~ MBE/WBE

Jamise:
‘This lewer isto inform you that The Beiter Company is committed to comply with and
‘exceed the City of Chicago's required MBE compliance of 16.9% and the WBE
compliance of 4.5%.

‘Thank you for your attention to this matter and please feel free to contact me with any
questions pertaining to this matter.

Sincerely,

‘The Beitler Company
IN, LaSalle Street
Suite 2850

Chicago, IL 60602

(One Nant LaSale Sue 2850 Chicago, lino 60602 912866.0277 fax 212.899.5050
SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MINORITY BUSINESS ENTERPRISE
COMMITMENT AND WOMEN BUSINESS ENTERPRISE COMMITMENT
(MBE/WBE Professional Services).o,e)

Policy and Terms

Its the policy of the City of Chicago that Local Businesses certified as Minority Business Enterprises (MBE) and.
‘Women Business Enterprises (WBE) in accordance with Section 2-92-420 gt seg ofthe Municipal Code of
‘Chicago and Regulations Governing Certification of Minority and Women-owned Businesses, and all other
Regulations promulgated under the aforementioned sections ofthe Municipal Code shall have the maximum
‘opportunity to participate fully inthe performance ofthis agreement. Therefore, the contractor shall not
liseriminate against any person or business oa the bass of ace, color, national origin or sex, and shall take
affirmative action to ensure that women and minority businesses shall have the maximum opportunity to compete
for and perform subcontract for supplies or services,

‘The Chief Procurement Officer has established a goal of awardiag not less than 25% ofthe annual dollar
value of all non-construction contracts to certified MBEs and 5% ofthe annual dollar value of all non~
construction contracts to certified WBEs,

. Failure to carry out the commitments and policies set forth herein shall constitute a material breach of |

the contract and may result in the termination ofthe contract or such remedy as the City of Chicago
‘deems appropriate.

Accordingly, the contractor commits to expend atleast the following percentages of the total contract

price (inclusive of any and all modifications and amendments), if awarded, for contract participation by
MBEs and WBEs:

[MBE Contract Goal: 16.9
‘WBE Contract Goal: 4:5

‘The commitment is met by the contractor's status as an MBE or WBE, or by a joint venture with one oF
‘more certified MBEs or WBEs that will perform work on the project, or by subcontracting a portion of

the work to one or more MBEs or WBEs, or by the purchase of materials used in the performance of the
contract from one or more MBEs or WBEs, or by the indirect participation of MBEs or WBEs in other

aspects of the contractor's business (but no dollar of such indirect MBE or WBE participation shall be

credited more than once against a contractor's MBE or WBE commitment with respect to all contracts of
‘such contractor), or by any combination of the foregoing,

Note: MBE/WBE participation goals are separate and those businesses certified with the City of Chicago
1s both an MBE and WBE shall not be credited more than once against a contractor's MBE or WBE.
‘commitment in the performance of the contract.

‘As noted above, the contractor may meet all or part of this commitment by contracting with MBEs or
\WBES for the provision of goods or services not directly related tothe performance of this contract.
‘However, in determining the manner of MBE/WBE participation, the contractor shall first consider
involvement of MBEs/WBEs as joint venture partners, subcontractors, and suppliers of goods and
services directly related tothe performance of this contract. In appropriate cases, the Chief Procurement
Officer will require the contractor to demonstrate the specific efforts undertaken to involve MBEs and.
\WBES in direct participation inthe performance of this contract.

Page 1 of 10
‘SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MBE/WBE COMMITMENT

‘The contractor also may wath prior approval of the Chief Procurement Officer or designee, meet a or part, of
{this commitment through cred received pursuant to Section 2-92-530 of the Municipal Code of Chicago for
the voluntary use of MBES or WBES in private sector projects

Definitions

“Minority Business Enterprise” or “MBE” means a frm awarded certification asa minority owned and
‘controlled busines in accordance with City Ordinances and Regulations.

“Women Business Enterprise” or “WBE” means a frm awarded certification as a women owned and controled
business in accordance with City Ordinances and Regulations.

“Directory” means the Directory of Certified “Disadvantaged Business Enterprises," “Minority Business
Enterprises” and “Women Business Enterprises” maintained and published by the Contract Compliance
‘Administrator. The Directory identifies firms that have been certified as MBEs and WBEs, and Includes both the
date of ther last certification and the area of specialty in which they have been certified. Contractors are
‘responsible for verifying the current certification statu ofall proposed MBE and WBE finns.

“Area of Specialty” means the description of an MBE or WBE firm’s business which has been determined by the
(Chiet Procurement Officer to be most reflective of the MBE or WBE firm's claimed specialty or expertise. Each
-MBE/WBE letter of cerification contains a description ofthe firm's Area of Specialty. This information is alse
contained in the Directory. Credit toward this contract's MBE and WBE participation goals shall be limited to the
participation of firms performing within thei Area of Specialty.

NOTICE: The Department of Procurement Services does not make any representation concerning the ability
cof any MBE/WBE to perform work within their Area of Specialty. It isthe responsibilty ofall
<ontraciors to determine the capability and cepacity of MBEs/WBES to satisfactorily perform the
‘work proposed.

“Joint Venture” means an association of two or more busineses to carry outa single business enterprise for
profit and for which purpose they combine their expertise, property, capital, efforts, skill and knowledge
‘Contractors may develop joint venture agreements as an instrument to provide participation by MBEs and WBE
in contract work

“Contract Compliance Administrator” means the officer appointed pursuant to Section 2-92-490 of the
Municipal Code of Chicago.

oint Ventures

Bidders may develop joint venture agreements as an instrument to provide participation by certified MBES and
WEES in contract work. joint venture seeking tobe credited for MBE and/or WBE participation may be
{formed among MBE andlor WBE firms or between an MBE andlor WBE firm and a non MBE/WBE frm,

A joint venture is eligible for MBE or WBE credit if the MBE/WBE joint venture partner(s) share in the
‘ownership, control and management responsibilities, risks and profits of the joint venture, and are
responsible for a clearly defined portion of work to be performed, in proportion with the MBE and/or
WBE ownership percentage.

Notice: The City requires that, whenever joint venture is proposed asthe prime contractor, cach joint venture
partner must separately sign the proposal to the City, inthe pages captioned, TO BE EXECUTED BY A=
CORPORATION; TO BE EXECUTED BY A PARTNERSHIP; and/or TO BE EXECUTED BY A SOLE
PROPRIETOR, as applicable.

Page 2 of 10
SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MBE/WBE COMMITMENT
‘Counting MBE/WBE Participation Toward the Contract Goals

‘The inclusion of any MBE or WBE in the contractor's MBEYWBE Utilization Plan shall not conclusively
establish the contractors right to full MBE/WBE credit fr that firm's participation inthe contrat. Once an
MBE or WBE is determined to be eligible in accordance with these rules, the total dollar value of the work
awarded tothe MBE or WBE may be counted toward the MBE or WBE goal except a indicated below:

‘The Chief Procurement Officer reserves the right to deny or limit MBE/WBE credit tothe contractor where any
[MBE or WBE is found to be engaged insubstantial subcontracting or pass-through activities with others. A
‘contractor may count toward its MBE and WBE goals only expenditures to firms that perform a commercially
‘useful function. A fim is considered to perform a commercially useful function when its responsible forthe
performance ofa clearly defined and distinct element of work and is carrying out it responsibilities by actually
performing, managing, and supervising the work involved. To determine whether a firm i performing @
‘commercially useful function, the Chief Procurement Officer shall evaluate the amount of work subcontracted,
industry practices, and other relevant factors. The amount of MBEVWBE participation credit shall be based upon,
‘an analysis by the Chief Procurement Officer of the specifi duties that wll be performed by the MBE or WBE.
Each MBE/WBE shall be expected to actually perform a substantial (ie, more than eighty-five percent (85%))
Portion a the work contemplated for it by any subcontract or agreement through the use of is owm employees and
uipment

‘Requested information may include, without limitation: (1) specifi information concerning brokers’ fees

andior commissions; 2) intended sub-suppliers or other sources of goods andor services
financial or other risks to be assumed by the MBE/WBE.

MBE and WBEs who have been certified as “brokers” shall no Jonger be considered el
any consideration of MBE or WBE credit on contacts awarded by the City

‘A joint venture may count toward its MBE or WBE goal the dollar value ofthe actual work performed
by the MBE and/or WBE joint venture partner with its own resources,

‘The Chief Procurement Officer reserves the right to disallow goal credit for all, o any portion, of work
performed by an MBE or WBE joint venturer based on evaluations of non-compliance with these Special
‘Conditions or any other City, Siate andlor Federal regulation.

‘Regulations Governing Reduction or Waiver of MBE/WBE. Goals

‘The following Regulations set forth the standards to be used in determining whether or not a reduction or waiver
‘of the MBE/WBE commitment goals ofa particular contract is approprite. Ifa bidder or proposer determines
‘thai is unable to meet the MBE and/or WBE goal percentage ona City of Chicago contact, a written request for
the reduction or waiver ofthe commitment must be included inthe bid or proposal.

‘The writen request for reduction or waiver from the commitment must be inthe form of a signed petition for
grant of relief from the MBEY/WBE percentages submited onthe bidder/proposer’s letterhead, and must
‘demonstrate that all required efforts as set forth inthis document were taken to secure eligible Minority and
‘Women Business Enterprises to mect the commitments. The Chief Procurement Offeror designee shall
determine whether the request fr the reduction or waiver will be granted,

Page 3 of 10
SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MBE/WBE COMMITMENT

Bidderw/proposers will be considered responsive to the terms and conditions of these Regulations if
‘Waiver request and proof of notification to an assist agency is submitted atthe time of bid/proposal
‘opening. Once the bids have been opened, the lowest responsive and responsible bidder so deemed by the Chief
‘Procurement Officer or authorized designee will have no more than fourteen (14) calendar deys to submit to the
‘Department of Procurement complete documentation tht adequately addresses the conditions for waiver
<escribed herein. Proposers responding to Request for Proposals (RFPs) who have been Wentified as a short
listed candidate and/or a prospective awardee willbe given a designated time allowance, but no more than
{fourteen (14) calendar days to submit to the Department of Procurement Services complete documentation
‘that adequately addresses the conditions for waiver described herein. Respondents to Request for
Information and or Qualifications (RFURFQs) deemed by the Chief Procurement Officer or authorized
<esignee to be the most responsive and responsible shall submit documentation that adequately addresses
the conditions for waiver described herein during negotiations. Failure to submit documentation sufficient to
suppor the waiver request will cause the bid/proposal tobe found non-responsive by the Chief Procurement
Officer, and the bid/proposa wil be rejected. In such cases the remedies to be taken bythe Chief Procurement
Officer, in his discretion, may include, but are nct limited to, forfeiture of bid deposit; negotiating wit the next
owes bidder/proposer; or re-advertsing the bid/proposal. All biddersproposers are encouraged to submit al
‘required documents atthe time of bid opening to expedite the contract award.

DireetIndirect Participation

Each of the following elements must be present inorder to determine whether or nt sucha reduction or waiver i
appropriate :

1, The bidder/proposer has documented the unsuccessful solicitation for either subcontractors or joint
‘enture partners ofa least 50% (or atleast five when there are more than eleven certified firms in the
commodity area) ofthe appropriate certified MBE/WBE firms to perform any direct ot indirect work
‘identified or related tothe advertised bid/proposal. Direct participation involves subcontracting « portion
ofthe goods/services specifically required inthe bid/proposal. Indirect participation isthe subcontracting
‘of goods/servces not specifically related to the performance of this contract. Documentation must include
but isnot necessarily limited to:

& A detailed statement of efforts to identity and selet portions of work identified inthe bid
solicitation for subcontracting to cenified MBE/WBE firms;

1b, A listing of all MBE/WBE firms contacted that includes

(1) Names, address and telephone numbers of MBE/WBE firms solicited;
(2) Date and time of contact,
G) Method of contact (writen, telephone, facsimile, et)

& Copies ofletersor any ater evidence of mailing that substantiates outreach to MBE/WBE
vendors that includes:

(1) Project identification and location;

@) _Classficaton/commodity of work items for which quotations were sought;

G) Date, item and location fr acceptance of subcontractor bid proposals;

(4) Detailed statement which summarizes direct negotiations with appropriate MBE/WBE
fis for specific portion ofthe work and indicates why negotiations were unsuccessful;

(5) Affirmation that good fith efforts have been demonstrated by choosing subcontracting
‘opportunities likely to achieve MBE/WBE goals by not imposing any limiting conditions
‘which were not mandatory forall subcontractors; or denying the benefit ordinarily
conferred on MBE/WBE subcontractors forthe rype of work that was solicited.

OR

Page 4 of 10
‘SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MBE/WBE COMMITMENT

2. Subcontractor participation will be deemed excessively costly when the MBE/WBE subcontractor
proposal exceeds the average price quoted by more than twenty percent (208). In order to establish that 2
subcontracts’ quote is excessively costly, the bidder/proposer must provide the following information

4 A detailed statement of the work identified for MBE/WBE participation for which the
bidder/proposer asserts the MBE/WBE quote(s) were excessively costly (in excess of 20%
higher).

(1) A isting of al potential subcontractors contacted for a quotation on that work item;
(@) Prices quoted for the subcontract in question by all such potential subcontractors for thet
‘work item.

'. Other documentation which demonstrates tothe satisfaction ofthe Chief Procurement Officer that
the MBE/WBE proposals are excessively costly, even though notin exces of 20% higher than
‘the average price quoted. This determination will be based on factors that include, but are not,
limited tothe folowing:

(1) The City’s estimate forthe work under a specific subcontract;

2) The bidder/proposer’s own estimate forthe work under the subcontract;

G)__Anaverage of the bona fide prices quoted for the subcontract;

(Demonstrated increase in other contact costs as a result of subcontracting tothe M/WBE
or other firm,

‘Assist Agency Participation
Every waiver and/or reduction request must include evidence thatthe bidder/proposer has provided timely notice

‘ofthe need for subcontractors to an appropriate association/asist agency representative of the MBE/WBE.
business community

The notice requirement ofthis Section willbe suisied i a bidder/proposer contacts at least one of the
‘associations on Attachment A when the prime contractor seeks a Waiver or reduction inthe utilization goals.
‘Attachment B provides the leter format that a prime contractor may use. Proof of notification prior to bid
submittal (e.g certified mai receipt o facsimile transmittal receipt) will be required for any bid/proposal
submitted 1 be deemed responsive on the date of bid opening. If deemed appropriate, the Chief Procurement
(Officer or Contact Compliance Officer may contact the assist agency for verification of notification

Impracticability

|. Ifthe Chief Procurement Officer determines that a lesser MBE and/or WBE percentage standard is
‘propriate with respect toa particular contract subject to competitive bidding prior tothe bid
solicitation for such contract, bid specifications shall include a statement of such revised standard

2. The requirements set forth in these Regulations shall not apply where the Chef Procurement Officer
<etermines prior to the bd solicitations that MBE/WBE subcontractor participation i impracticable,

‘This may occur whenever the Chief Procurement Officer determines that for reasons of time, need, industry
practices or standards not previously known by the Procurement Department administrator, or uch other extreme
ircumstances as may be deemed appropriate, such a Waiver is in the bes interests ofthe City. This determination
‘ay be made in connection with a particular contact, whether before the contract is lt forbid, during the bid gy
‘award process, before or during negotiation of the contrac, or during the performance of the contract

Page 5 of 10
SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MBE/WBE COMMITMENT

For all notifications required to be made by bidders/proposes, in situations where the Chief Procurement Officer
‘has determined that time is ofthe essence, documented telephone contact may be substituted for letter contact,

‘Procedure To Determine Bid Compliance
‘The following Schedules and described documents constitute the bidder's MBE/WBE proposal, and must be
submitted in accordance with the

1 any fully completed and executed Schedule C-1is not submitted with the bid/proposel, it must be received by
‘the Contract Administrator within ten (10) days ofthe bid/proposal opening. (All post bid/proposelsubmissioes
‘must have original signatures on all documents). Failure to submit a completed Schedule C- in accordance sith
this section shall entitle the Cty to deem the bid/proposal non-responsive and therefore reject the bid/proposal

Letters of Certication.

A copy ofeach proposed MBE/WBE firm's current Letter of Certification frm the City of Chicago must be
‘submitted with the bidproposal. :

All Leters of Certification issued by the City of Chicago include a statement ofthe MBE/WBE firm's Area of
Specialty. The MBE/WBE firm's scope of work, as detailed by their Schedule C-1, must conform to their stated
‘Area of Specialy

ont Venture Agreements

[fhe bidder'sproposer’s MBE/WBE proposal includes the petcipation ofan MBE/WBE as joint venture on any
Aer (iter asthe bidder/propose or as a subcontractor), the bidder proposer must provide a eopy ofthe joint
venture agreement.

‘Schedule 0-1; Affcavit of MBEAVBE Goa Implementation Pian

Bidders must submit, together withthe bid, a completed Schedule D-1 commiting them to the utilization of each
listed MBE/WBE firm,

Except in cases where the bidder/roposer has submitted a request for a complete waiver of or variance from the
“MBE/WBE commitment in accordance with Section V. herein, the bidder/proposer must commit to the
expenditure of a specific dollar amount of participation and a specific percentage of the total award amount for
cach MBEAWBE firm included on their Schedule D-1. The total dollar commitment o proposed MBEs must at
east equa the MBE goal, andthe total dollar commitment to proposed WBEs musta east equal the WBE goal
Bidders ae responsible for calculating the dollar equivalent ofthe MBE and WBE goals es percentages of ther
total base bids or in the case of Term Agreements, as percentages ofthe total estimated usage

All commitments made by the bidder's Schedule D-1 must conform to those presented inthe submitted Schedule
GL. If'ScheduleC-L is submited after the bid opening (se Section VI A., above) the bidder/proposer may
submit a revised Schedule D-1 (executed and notarized) to conform with the Schedule C-1. Except n cases
‘here substantial and documented justification is provided, bdders/proposers will not be allowed to reduce the.
olla commitment made to any MBE or WBE in order to achieve conformity between the Schedules C-Land D=
L

Page 6 of 10
SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MBE/WBE COMMITME!

‘A. The Contractor shall, not later than thirty (30) days from the award ofa contract by the ity, execute formal
contracts or purchase orders withthe MBEs and WBES included in their approved MBE/WBE Utilization Plan,
‘These written agreements shall be made available tothe Chief Procurement Officer upon request

B. Inthe case of one time procurements of supplies with either single or multiple deliveries tobe performed in less
than one year from the date of contract award, an “MBE/WBE Utilization Report.” indicating final MBE and
‘WBE payments shall be submitted directly to the Department of Procurement Services 80 as to ssure receipt
ither athe same time, or before the using Department receives the contractor's inl invoice.
‘may beheld until the Utilization Reports have been received,
NOTICE: Do not submit invoices with “MBE/WBE. Utilization Reports.”

©. During the term of al other contracts, the contractor shall submit regular “MBE/WBE Utilization Reports,
‘copy of which is attached. The fequency with which these reports are to be submitted willbe determined by the
(Chief Procurement Officer, but in no case will reports be required less often than on a quarterly basis. Inthe

D. _“MBE/WBE Utilization Reports” are to be submited directly to: Department of Procurement Services,
Office of Vendor Relations, City Hall, Room 403, 121 N. LaSalle Stree, Chicago, Iinois 60602,

E, The Contract Compliance Administrator shall be entitled to examine, on five (5) business days notice, the
contractor's books and records including without limitation payroll records, tax returns end record, and books of
‘account, to determine whether the contractor isin compliance with its commitment to MBE/WBE participation
and the status of any MBE or WBE performing any portion ofthe contract. Such rights are in addition to any
‘other audit inspection rights contained inthe contact.

‘VILL MBE/WBE Substitutions

‘Changes bythe contractor of the commitments earlier certified inthe Schedule D-1 are prohibited. In some cases,
however, it may become necessary to substitute a new MBE or WBE inorder to actually fulfil the MBE/ WBE
requirements

‘The contractor must notify the Chief Procurement Officer immediately in writing ofthe necessity to reduce or
terminate an MBE/WBE subcontract and to utilize a substitute firm for some phase of work. The contractor's
notification should include the reason forthe substitution request, as well 3, the name, address and principal,
“official of the substitute MBE/WBE andthe dollar value and scope of work ofthe subcontract. Attached should
be all the requisite MBE/WBE affidavits and documents, as enumerated above in Section VI. above, “‘Prosedure

to Determine Bid Compliance,”

The City will not approve extra payment for escalated costs incured by the contractor when a substitution of
subcontractors becomes necessary forthe contractor inorder to comply with MBE/WBE contract requirements,

Alter award of contract, no relief of the MBE/WBE requirements will be granted bythe City except in
‘exceptional circumstances. Request for complete or partial waiver ofthe MBE/WBE requirements ofthis
contract must be made in writing, stating all detail of the request, the circumstances, and any additional relevast
information. The request mast be accompanied by a record of all efforts taken by the contractor to locate specific
firms, solicit MBE/WBE bids, seek assistance from technical assistance agencies, etc, as outlined above in the
section V. above, entitled “ "

Page 7 of 10
‘SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MBE/WBE COMMITMENT.
‘Non-Compliance and Damages

The following constitutes a material breach ofthis contract and shal entitle the City to declare «default, terminate
the contract and exercise those remedies provided for in the contract, a law or in equity:

(1) faire to satisfy the MBE/WBE percentages required by the contract and

(2) the contractor or subcontractor is disqualified as an MBE or WBE, and such satus was «factor in
‘contract award, and was misrepresented by the contractor.

In the event that the contractor is determined not to have been involved in any misrepresentation of the status of
‘the disqualified subcontractor or supplier, the contractor shall seek to discharge the disqualified subcontractor or
supplier, upon proper notification to the Chief Procurement Officer and/or Contract Compliance Administrator
and make every effort to identify and engage a qualified MBE or WBE as its replacement. Furthermore,
continued eligibility to enter into future contracting arrangements withthe ity may be jeopardized asa result of
‘non-compliance. Payments due tothe contractor may be withheld until corrective action i taken,

Arbitration

In the event that a contractor has not complied with the contractual MBE/WBE percentages in ts Schedule D,
‘underutlization of MBEwWBEs shall entitle the affected MBE/WBE to recover from the contactor damages
suffered by such entity asa result of being underutilized; provided, however, tht this provision shall not apply #0
the extent such underutilization occurs pursuant to waiver or substitution approved by the City. The Ordinance
and contracts subject thereto provide that any disputes between the contractor and such effected MBES/WBEs
regarding damages shall be resolved by binding arbitration before an independent arbitrator other than the ity,
with reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, being recoverable by a prevailing MBE/WBE in accordance
‘ith these regulations. This provision is intended forthe benefit of any MBE/WBE affected by underutilization
and grants such entity specific third party beneficiary rights. Any rights conferred by this regulation are non-
‘waivable and take precedence over any agreement othe contrary, including but not limited to those contained in
«subcontract, suborder, or communicated orally between a contractor and an MBE/WBE

‘An MBE/WBE desiring to arbitrate shall contact the contractor in writing to initiate the arbtratve process.
Except as otherwise agreed to in writing bythe affected parties subject to te limitation contained inthe last
sentence ofthe previous paragraph, Section X. A. above, within en (10) days of the contractor receiving.
notification ofthe intent o arbitrate from the MBE/WBE the above-described disputes shall be arbitrated in
sccordance withthe Commercial Arbitration Rules ofthe American Arbitration Association (“AAA”), a not-for-
profit agency, with an office at 225 North Michigan Avenue, Suite 2527, Chicago, Illinois 60601-7601 [Phone
(G12) 616-6560; Fax: (312) $19-0404]. All such arbitrations shall be initiated by the MBE/WBE filing a
‘demand for arbitration withthe AAA; shall be conducted by the AAA and held in Chicago, Iino.

All fees of the arbitrator are the inital responsibilty of the MBE/WBE; provided, however, that the arbitrator is
‘authorized to award reasonable expenses, including attorney's and arbitrator fees, as damages to a prevailing,
MBE/WBE,

‘The MBE/WBE must send the City a copy of the “Demand for Arbitration” within ten (10) days after itis fled
with the AAA. The MBE/WBE also must send the City a copy of the decision of the arbitrator within ten (10)
days of receiving such decision. Judgment upon the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court
‘of competent jurisdiction

Record Keeping .
‘The Contractor shall maintain records of all relevant data with respect tothe utilization of MBEs/WBES, retaining

‘these records fora period of at least three years after final acceptance of the work. Full acces to these records
Page 8 of 10
‘SPECIAL CONDITION REGARDING MBE/WBE COMMITMENT

shall be granted tothe City of Chicago, Federal or State authorities in this projec, the U.S, Department of Justice,
for any duly authorized representatives thereof.

‘Information Sources
‘Small business guaranteed loans; surety bond guarantees; 8 (a certification:
US. Small Business Administration ‘SBB.A.- Bond Guarantee Program
'500'W. Madison Street, Suite 1250 Surety Bonds
Chicago, Iinois 60661 500 West Madison, Suite 1250,
General Information Chicago, llinois 60661
G12) 353-4528, ‘Attention: Carole Harris
12) 353-4003,

S.B.A.- Procurement Assistance
500 West Madison, Suite 1250

Chicago, linois 60661
‘Attention: Robert P. Murphy, Area Regional Administrator
12) 353-7381

Project information and general MBE/WBE information: :

City of Chicago
Department of Procurement
Office of Vendor Relations
City all - Room 403
Chicago, Minois 60602
‘Auention: Monica Cardenas
G12) 744.08

Directory of Certified Disadvantaged, Minority and Women Business Enterprises:

Chicago, llinois 69602
‘Attention: Lille Cooper
12) 744-1896

General Information, Department of Procurement Services: www cityofehicagoorg/purchesing.

Information on MBE/WBE availabilty inthe manufacturing, sales or supplies, and related fields (direct
sssstance from 42 regional affiliates located throughout the U.S.):

National Minority Suppliers Chicago Minority Business
Development Council, Ine. Development Council

1040 Avenue ofthe Americas, 2" floor 1 South LaSalle - Suite 850

New York, New York 10018 Chicago, tlinois 60603

‘Atention: Harriet R. Michel ‘Attention: Tracye Smith .
(212) 944-2430 312) 263.0105

Page 9 of 10
SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR PROFESSIONAL SERVICE CONTRACTS (MBE/WBE)
MBEWBE PROFESSIONAL SERVICES RE.

Page 10
ATTACHMENT A

ASSIST AGENCIES: NON-CONSTRUCTION

Latin American
Chamber of Commerce
3512 W, Fullerton Avenue
Chicago, inci 60647
‘Attn: D.Lotenzo Padron
(073) 282-5211

(973) 252-7005"

Women in Business Yelow Pages
819 S. Wabash, Suite 606
‘Chicago, nots 69605

‘cw: Ida Bal

(47) 679-7800

(647) 679-7645"

‘Asian American
Smal Business Association
5023 N. Broadway
Chicago, lino’ 60640
‘Attn: Charles S00

(773) 728-1030

‘National Association of Women
Business Oumers-Cricago Chapt.
175 W. Jackson, Suite 625,
Chicago. inois 60604

‘Atwn: Sandia Gidey

812) 322-0990,

12) 461-0738"

inois Dept. of Commerce
‘and Community Afar

100 W. Randoiph = Suite 3-400
Chicago, lino's 40601

‘Aan: Matie Cole

(312) 814-7176

(12) 814-6732"

Intemationat Trade Bureau
‘Operation Push

‘930 Sotn Sueet
Chicago, itinis 60615
(773) 373-3366

(773) 373-3571"

CChicago Minorty Business
rent Counc

17S. LaSale Steet - Sute $20

‘Chicago, tlio 60603-1202

‘Attn: Maye Foster Thompson

B12) 263-0105

(B12) 263-0280"

Titan College
‘small Bus. Development Center
2000 Fith Avenue

River Grove, tinals 60171

‘Attn: Jeffiey Bares

(708) 456-0300 - Ex. 3593,
(708) 583-31 18*

‘Cosmopolitan Chamber of Commerce
1326 8. Michigan - Sute 100

Chicago, tlinots 60605-2602

‘Artn: Consuelo Pope

‘yfah Booker-Hit

(812) 766-0212

(312) 786-9079"

Westside Smat Business
Development Corporation
1121N. Pulaski Road.
Chicago, lino 60624
‘Attn: Betty Boston

(273) 638-1990

(73) 638-4851"

Lutte Vilage 26th treet
‘Area Chamber of Commerce
3610 West 26tn Street
Chicago, ino’ 60673

‘rain: Frank Aguilar, Exec. Di
(773) 521-5367

(073) 521-5252"

(Chicago Urban League
4510. Michigan
CChicago, tino’s 60653
‘cin: Lee V. Smith
(312) 285-5800 1383
(B12) 285-7772"

Page 1

‘Mexican American
Chamber of Commerce of tina's
1225. Michigan Ave. Sute 1705
Chicago, tina's 60603,

‘Attn: Juan Ochoa

312) s54-0884

(B12) 554-0886"

State of tials
Dept. of Central Management Service
‘Business Enterprises Di’sion

100 w. Ranaojph st, Suite 4-400
Chicago, tinais 6060

‘Aan: Irene Cuaioping

B12) 814-4190

B12) 814-6664

* Fax Number
ATTACHMENT A
ASSIST AGENCIES: CONSTRUCTION

Hspanic-Amercan Construction ‘Asian American Aliance
Industry Associations (HACIA) 222\W. Cermak Road. Ste. 302
901 West Jackson-Suite 205, Chicago, tinois 60616-1986
Chicago I. 60607 ‘Act: Chistne |, Takada
‘Attn: Rafael Hemandez Executve Director

B12) 66-5910 (312)326-2200

(812) 666-5692" (312) 326-0399"

‘Mexican American Latin Amencan Chamber of
Chamber of Commerce of lino Commerce

122. Micrigan Ave. Suite 1705 3512 West Fuleton Avenue
Chicago, iinois 60603 ‘Chicago, tino’ 60647

‘Attn: Juan Ochoa ‘Attn: Hans Bonner

(B12) $54-088e (773) 252-5211

B12) 554-0886" (773) 252-7065"

Federation of Wamen Contractors

175 West Jackson, te. 625
Chicago, Iino 60604

‘Attn: Debra Smith, Administration

(312) 360-1122 Revised 4-24-03
(312) 360-0239" * Fax Number

‘Atican American
Contractors Association
3706, indiana

‘Chicago, tinois 60653

‘Attn: Omar Share, resident
{812} 760-1011 pay

312) 567-9919"

Black Contractors United
400 West 76" St. Suite 200
Chicago, ino 60620

‘Attn: Forence Cox. Exec. Director
(773) 483-4000

(773) 483-4150"

‘Association ot Aslan
Construction Enterprises

+333 North Ogden Avenue
‘Chicago, tinois 60607

‘Attn: Mr. Py Nakachi President
(312) 563-0746

812} 666-1785"

Page 2
ATTACHMENT B
(Qn Bidder’proposer s Letterhead)

(Due)
Re: Specification

Description:
(Assist Agency Name and Address)

Dear

{Bidden/Proposer) ___intends to submit bid/proposal in esponse to the above referenced specification with
the Cty of Chicago. Bids are due advertised specification with the City of Chicago,

The following areas have been identified for subcontracting opportnities on both a direct and indirect bass:

ur efforts to identify potential subcontractors have not been successful inorder to meet the
Disadvantaged/Minority/Women Business Enterprise contract goal. Due tothe inability t identify an appropriate
DBE/MBE/WEE firm certified by the City of Chicago to participate s a subcontractor or joint venture partner, a
‘request for the waiver ofthe contract goals will be submitted. Ifyou are aware of sucha firm, please contact

a

‘within (10) ten working days of receipt ofthis leer.

‘Under the City of Chicago's MBE/WBE/DBE Ordinance, your agency is entitled to comment upon ths waiver request to
the City of Chicago. Written comments may be directed within fiften (15) working days of your receipt ofthis leter to

Michael J. McMurray, Deputy Procurement Officer
Department of Procurement Services

City of Chicago

121 North La Salle Steet, Room 403

Chicago, llinois 60602

If you wish to discuss this matter, please contact the undersigned at

Sincerely,

SCHEDULE B: Affidavit of Joint Venture (MBE/WBE)

Tis form need not be submitted it all joint venturers are MBES andlor WBES. In such a case, however, a wneten joint
venture agreement among the MBE and WBE venturers must De submitted. inal proposed joint ventures, each MBE
andor WBE venturer must submit a copy of the¥ curent Letter of Certicaton.

‘At information Requested by this Scheduie must Be Answered inthe Spaces Provided. Do Not Refer to Your Joint
Venture Agreement Except to Expand on Answers Proved on this Form. If Additional Space is Required, Adational
Sheets May Be Attached

1 Name ofjoine venture:
acess of join venture

Phone number ofjoint venture

| Identiy each non-MBE/WBE venturers)
Name of Fm:
‘Aaaress
Phone:
‘Contact person for matters conceming MBENWBE complance

iL Identity each MBEAWBE ventures
Name of Fem:
‘Adress:
Prone:
Contact person for matters concerning MBEAVBE complance

IV. Describe the roles) of the MBE and/or WBE ventures) nthe Joint venture

v.  ‘Mtachacogyofthe joint venture agreement. in order to demonstate the MBE and/or WBE ventures share
Inte ownership, contro, management responsibies, rks and profits ofthe joint venture. the proposed joint
venture agreement must indude speciic detais related to: 1) the conibutions of capital and equipment: (2)
‘work tems to be performed by the MBE/WBE's own forces [3] work items tobe performed unde the
supenssion ofthe MBEAVBE venture, and (4) the commitment of management. supervisory and operate
Personnel employed by the MBE/WBE to be dedicated to the performance ofthe project.

‘Qumershi ofthe Joint Venture

‘A What are the percentages} of MBEAWBE overship ofthe joint verte?
-MBEAWBE ownership percentagels)
Non-MBEAWBE ownership perertagets)

8. Specty MBEAVBE percentages for each of the folowing fprovde narrative descrations ancl other deta
25 applicable

1. Profi ana loss sharing:

2 Capital contributions:
(a) Dolar amounts of intial contrbution: =

(e) Doar amounts of anticipated on-going contributions:
Schedule B: Affidavit of Joint Venture (MBE/WBE)

3. Contriutions of equipment (Specty types, ualty and quantities of equipment to be provided
byeach ventures

4. Other applicable ownership interests. inducing ownership options or ether agreements which
Testrct r mit ownership and/or contro!

5. Provide copies of all written agreements between venturersconceming ths project.

6. Identity each current Ciy of Chicago contract (and each contract completed curing the past
‘wo [| years) by 2olnt venture of two or more fms pancpating in this joint venture:

‘iL Control of and Paricpation in the Joint Venture. Identity by name and fim those indMiduals who are, or wal
'be response for, ang have the authorty to engage in the folowing management functions and policy
‘Gecsions. fndcate any lmations to thei authority such as dollar imits and co-sgnatory requirement

‘A. Joint venture check signing:

1B Authorty to enter contracts on behalf ofthe join venture:

C._Signing, co-signing andor cotateralzing oans:

D. Acquistion of ines of creat

Schedule B: Affidavit of Joint Venture (MBE/WBE)
Acquistion and indemnification of payment and performance bonds:

F. Negotiating and signing iabor agreements:

G._ Management of contract performance. (Identity by name and frm ony
1. Supenésion of fea operations:

2 Major purchases

3 Estimating:

= Engineeng "

Finandal Controls of oint venture:

‘A. Which fm andlor indvicua! wil be responsible for keeping the books of account?

8. Identiy the ‘managing partner i any, and describe the means and measure oftheir compensation:

C.__What authonty does each venturer have to commit or obligate the othe ta insurance and banding
companies. francing instkutions, suppers, subcontractors, andlor other partes parigpating in the
performance ofthis contractor the work ofthis projec?

‘State the approximate number of operate personne! oy trace) needed to perorm te ont venture's work
under tis contract. Indicate whee they wil be employees of the nor-MBE/WEE fin the MBEWBE fr, oF
the jon verte
‘Schedule B: Affidavit of Joint Venture (MBE/WBE)

Trade Non-MBEWBE Fier MBEAWBE Joint Venture
‘Nebo (eb ‘umber

tL

{any personnel proposed for this project will be employees ofthe joint venture:
‘A. Ave any proposed joint venture employees currently employed by either venturer?
Currently employed by non-MBEAWBE (number) Employed by MBEWBE __

8. Identify by name and fren the individual who willbe responsible for hiring joint venture employees:

C. Which venturer will be responsible forthe preparation of joint venture payrolls

Please state any material facts of addtional information pertinent to the control and structure of this joint
venture.

Schedule B: Affidavit of Joint Venture (MBE/WBE)

The undersigned affirms thatthe foregoing statements are corect and incude al material information necessary to
‘dentiy and explain the terms and operations of our jint venture and the intended partcipation of each venturer in
‘the undertaking, Further, the undersigned covenant and agre to provide to the City current. complete and accurate
Information regarding actual joint venture work and the payment therefore, and any proposed changes in any
‘provision of the joint venture agreement. and to permit the audt and examination ofthe books, records and fles of
the joint venture, or those of each venture relevant tothe joint venture by authorized representatves ofthe City or the
Federal funding agency,

‘Any materia misrepresentation wal be grounds for terminating any contract which may be awarded and for ntating
_action under federal or state laws concerning fase statements

Note: It, ate fing ths Schedule B and before the completion on the joint verture's work on the project.
‘there is ary change inthe information submited, the joint venture must inform the Cty of Chicago, ether
‘rectly or through the prime contractor the joint venture i a subcontractor.

ame of MBEAVBE Parner Fm ‘Name of Non MBEAVBE Parnes Fim
Signature of Afant Signature of Atfant .
Namie and Tie of Aiant Name and Tie of Afiant

Bae Dae

Ontns_aayor the above-signed ofcers

‘Personaly appeared and, known to me be the persons described in the foregoing Aticavit
‘cknowledged that they executed the same inthe capaciy therein stated and for the
urpose therein contained.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, | hereunto set my hand and offal seal,

Signature of Notary Pubic

My Commission Expires:

(SEAL)
SCHEDULE C-1
Letter of Intent from MBE/WBE to Perform
‘as Subcontractor, Supplier and/or Consultant

Name of ProjecuContract:
Specticato Number
From: MBE: Yes No
FRO WBE: Yes No
To: {and the Cry of Chicago:
‘The undersigned intends to perform work in connection with the above projects asa:
Sole Proprietor _—— Corporation
Pannershio Joint Venture
‘The MBE/WBE status ofthe undersigned is confirmed by the attached letter of Certification from the Cty of Chicago
effective date of 10 for a period of one year.

‘The undersigned i prepared to provide the folowing described senices or suppl the folowing described goods in ~
Connection withthe above named projeccantact:

‘The above described performance i offered forthe folowing price and described tems of payment:

If more space ts needed to fully descrbe the MBE/WBE fim's proposed scape of work and/or payment schedule,
‘attach addtional sheets

‘The undersigned wal enter into a formal written agreement for the above work with you as 2 Prime Contractor,
conditioned upon your execution of a contract withthe City of Cricago, and wil do So win 3} tree working days of
‘receit ofa signed contact trom the Cy of Chicago,

Ten oe TE

Page 1
SCHEDULE D-1
‘Atflat of MBE/WBE Goa! implementation Plan

Project Name:

Sate of

County (City of
| HEREBY DECLARE AND AFFIRM that iam duly authorized representative of:

‘and that | have personally reviewed the material and facts set forth hereln descrbing our proposed plan to achieve the
[MBEAWBE goas of this contract.

‘Al MBENWBE fms included in this plan have been certiied as such by the Ciy of Chicago (Letters of Cetication |

‘Arached)

| MBE or WBE Pie ConsutanvContractor. If rime consuitants a cetifed MBE or WBE firm. attach copy of
‘Cy of Chicago Letter of Ceriicaton. (Certifcation of the pre consuitant as a MBE satisfies the MBE 903)
‘only. Certification ofthe prime consultant as a WBE satisfies the WBE goa! ony) :

| _MBES and WES as Joint Venturers. If me consultant isa joint venture and one or more joint venture
‘atners are cetifed MBES or WBEs, attach copies of Letters of Certification and a copy of Join Venture
‘Agreement dearly describing the fle of the MBE/WBE firms) and is ownership interest inthe joe venture.

1. MBEAWBE Subconsuitants. Complete for each MBE/WBE subconsultant/subcontractor/supple.

1 Name of MBEMWBE:

acres:

Contact Person: Phone:

Dollar Amount ofPartqpation 5

Percent Amount of Participation:
2. Name of MBEAWBE:

Adress

Contact Person: Phone:
DDotar Amount of Panicpation s
Percent Amount of Partpation:_9%

Page 1
SCHEDULE D-1

Name of MBEAWBE

Aress:

Contact Person: Prone:

DDolar Amount of Participation,

Percent Amount of Panicpation,_9%
Name of MBE/WBE:

Acres:

Contact Person: Phone:

‘Dotlar Amount of Pantiapation 5

Percent Amount of Panicpation:
Name of MBE/WBE:

Aasress:

Contact Person: Phone:

Dollar Amount of Pantcpation 5

Percent Amount of Paricipation:_9%
Name of MBEMWBE:

Adress:

Contact Person: Prone:

Dotiar Amount of Patcpation 5
Percent Amount of Panicpation;___

Name of MBEAWBE:

Adress:

Contact Person: Phone:

Doliar Amount of Pancpation s

Percent Amount of Panicpaton:__ 9

Page 2
SCHEDULE D-1
& Attach adaitional sheets as needed,
IV. Summary of MBE Proposat

MBE Firm Name Dolar Amount Percent Amount

of Participation ‘of participation

5 %

5 36

5 %6

H %6

5 %
Total MBE Participation: 5 %

V. Summary of WBE Proposal

WBE Firm Name Dolar Amount Percent Amount
of Participation of participation
5, %
5 36
5 % :
5 %
5 %
s 3%

Total WBE Paricpaton:

‘To the best of my knowledge. information and belle, the facts and representations contained inthis Schedule are tue,
‘and no materal facts have been omited.

The contractor designates the folowing person as ther MBEAWBE Liason Officer:
Name. Phone Number:

| do solemnly deciare and affimn under penalties of perjury thatthe contents of the foregoing document are true and
‘orect. and that | am authorized, on behalf ofthe contractor, to make this afiaav.

‘rete
State of.
County of
‘Ths instrument was acknowledged before me on date}
by. [name /s of persons)
ase ot utr, 9, officer trster, etc)

of name of pay on beat of winom instrument

was exceed,

(Seay
‘peu oy RE

Page 3
MBE/WBE UTILIZATION REPORT

Utiztion Repo No. Speciation No,
Coneact No.
Project Name:
STATE OF

COUNTY (ciTY| OF:

In connection with the above-captioned contrac:
| HEREBY DECLARE AND AFFIRM that !am the —

_and duly authorized representative of

Lo. :
{and thatthe folowng Minorty and Women Business Enterprises have been contracted with, and have fuished, or are ur
{and preparing materia for, and rendering services stated inthe contract agreement.

“The folowing Scnedule accurately reflects the value of each MBEAWBE sub-agreement and the amounts of money paid to «
cate,

:

: :

; :
coat

| do solemnly dedare and aftr under the penalties of peur that the contents ofthe foregoing document are true and cc
‘and that | am authorized, on behalf ofthe contractor, to make this afidavit,

Page 1
‘MBE/WBE UTILIZATION REPORT

Name of Contactor
ORT
Spare
bd Ngo Rare
Name of Mant
Date: peo
sate o
‘County (City) of
Tmasinsmament was adnowedged before meon ate
by {name/s of person/s}
_ type of aaron. e9. fier, ste, et)
. Ipame of pary on beat of whom rssue
aaaaea
Tonata oT Nay RE
(Seal)

Page 2
‘MBE/WBE UTILIZATION REPORT

Page 3
